Contaminants subject to these guidelines are: • Those detected in food where there is no regulatory level; and, • Those meeting the definitions within the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193 -1995) for which there are no specific Codex, regional or national standards, recommendations or guidelines; and, • Those where the detections have not been previously reported in the food and are unexpected (i.e. not a recurring or an intermittent occurrence); and, • Those found within a specific lot or consignment of food or food ingredient, Contaminants detected in situations where the risk manager is investigating the possibility of intentional adulteration of food are excluded. Examples of (groups of) contaminants included in the scope of these guidelines • Contaminants that may occur in materials used or created during processing of food and that may be inadvertently present in the food (e.g. printing inks, oils/lubricants/resins used as manufacturing maintenance compounds, cleaning compounds, traces of chemicals used in the manufacturing facility); • Chemicals used to mitigate specific environmental, sustainability and climate change issues, (e.g. nitrification and urease inhibitors), which have not been anticipated to be present in food;
The following principles apply: • These guidelines apply to food for human consumption that is currently in trade; • Contaminant detection information used in this scheme should satisfy the requirements of the relevant official food control programs for sampling and analysis; • Where there is an instance of the detection of a contaminant in a traded consignment of food where there is no regulatory level the competent authority in the exporting country can be notified and any relevant food safety information shared; • The risk assessment and risk management decisions, including data and information used to support the decision, should be documented in a transparent and systematic manner and made available upon request; • Where there are continuing or frequent detections of a contaminant in food where there is no regulatory level, targeted surveillance activities should be undertaken to determine the extent of potential human exposure and the source(s) of contamination.
Information provided by the analytical laboratory to the risk manager should include:
Section 7.7 Enough data and time to establish an ad hoc HBGV/POD/BMDL Calculate an ad hoc HBGV/POD/BMDL Conduct rapid exposure assessment.
Including notify exporting country if notification arrangements exist.
The tomatoes shall have had the stems and calices removed and where necessary, the core; b) packed with or without a suitable packing medium and seasoning ingredients appropriate to the product; and c) processed by heat, in an appropriate manner, before or after being hermetically sealed in a container, so as to prevent spoilage.
Preserved tomatoes with special ingredients shall have a flavour characteristic of that imparted by the tomatoes and the other substances used.
For small cans (less than 500 g net weight) this value shall be 70 percent.
6.2 The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).ii,8
Mould count for preserved tomatoes to be set according to the legislation of the country of retail sale.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).10
When appropriate on the basis of the above mentioned studies, additional studies should be conducted, which may include: predictive mathematical modelling established for the food in question, using critical growth or survival factors for L. monocytogenes in the product, challenge tests and durability studies to evaluate the growth or survival of L. monocytogenes that may be present in the product during the shelf life under reasonably foreseeable conditions of distribution, storage and use including seasonal and regional variations.
The factors and attributes described below are components of Good Hygienic Practice programs that will typically require elevated attention to control L. monocytogenes and may be identified as critical control points in HACCP programs where L. monocytogenes is identified as a hazard.
Whenever possible, equipment should be designed and placed in a manner that facilitates access for efficient cleaning and disinfection, and thus avoid the formation of biofilms containing L. monocytogenes and harbourage sites.
Rooms where ready-to-eat products are exposed to the environment should be designed so that they can be maintained as dry as possible; wet operations often enhance the growth and spread of L. monocytogenes.
Where appropriate, care should be taken to isolate the construction area, to enhance hygienic operations and to increase environmental monitoring to detect Listeria spp. during construction/renovation (see Section 6.5).
Insulation should be designed and installed in a manner that it does not become a harbourage site for L. monocytogenes.
Wherever feasible, facilities should be designed so that droplets and aerosols from condensates do not directly or indirectly contaminate food and food contact surfaces.
Raw materials should be stored separately from finished, processed products.
This should be taken into account when establishing shelf life.
Refer to the Recommended International Code of Practice-General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969) and Principles for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria for Foods (CAC/GL 21-1979).
Industry (primary producers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers and food service/institutional establishments) and trade associations have an importan t role in providing specific instruction and training for control of L. monocytogenes.
Personnel involved with the production and handling of ready-to-eat food should have appropriate training in: • the nature of L. monocytogenes, its harbourage sites, and its resistance to various environmental conditions to be able to conduct a suitable hazard analysis for their products; • control measures for reducing the risk of L. monocytogenes associated with ready-to-eat foods during processing, distribution, marketing, use and storage; • the means for verifying effectiveness of control programs, including sampling and analytical techniques;
In some instances, the need for public warnings should be considered.
The effectiveness of sanitation programs should be periodically verified and the programs modified as necessary to assure the consistent achievement of the level of control needed for a food operation to prevent L. monocytogenes contamination of ready-to-eat food and ready-to-eat food contact surfaces.
Adequate training and supervision should be provided to assure hygienic practices are accomplished.
Tankers should be dedicated to transport either ingredients or finished products.
A record should be available that indicates when cleaning occurred.
Where appropriate, product labels should include information on safe handling practices and/or advice on the time frames in which the product should be eaten.
Programs for consumer information should be directed: at consumers with increased susceptibility to contracting listeriosis, such as pregnant women, the elderly and immunocompromised persons; to help consumers make informed choices about purchase, storage, shelf-life labelling and appropriate consumption of certain ready-to-eat foods that have been identified in relevant risk assessment and other studies, taking into consideration the specific regional conditions and consumption habits;
Rationale: Consumers (in particular, the susceptible populations), health care providers, need to be informed about ready-to-eat foods supporting growth of L. monocytogenes, food handling, preparation practices and avoidance of certain foods by susceptible populations.
Equipment that could have become contaminated during maintenance work on facility utilities, e.g. air system, water system, etc., or remodelling, should be cleaned and disinfected prior to use.
Utensils for cleaning drains should be easily distinguishable and be dedicated to that purpose to minimise the potential for contamination.
Establishment of such specific criteria an d actions is more appropria tely the responsibility of competent authorities due to the diversity in products and manufacturing technologies.
Objectives: Processing operations should be controlled to reduce the frequency and level of contamination in the finished product, to minimise the growth of L. monocytogenes in the finished product and to reduce the likelihood that the product will be recontaminated and/or will support the growth of L. monocytogenes during subsequent distribution, marketing and home use.
An environmental monitoring program for Listeria in processing areas where ready-to-eat foods are exposed is necessary to assess the effectiveness of control measures and, therefore, the likelihood of contamination of the food.
One effective element of managing this risk is to implement a monitoring program to assess control of the environment in which ready-to-eat foods are exposed prior to final packaging.
It should be defined according to existing data on the presence of Listeria spp. and/or L. monocytogenes in the environment of the operation under consideration.
Different criteria or other limits may be applied when the competent authority determines that the use of such an approach provides an acceptable level of public health or when the competent authority determines a more stringent criterion is necessary to protect public health.
The typical actions to be taken where there is a failure to meet the above criterion would be to (1) prevent the affected lot from being released for human consumption, (2) recall the product if it has been released for human consumption, and/or (3) determine and correct the root cause of the failure.
In the design of an environmental verification program, the competent authority should articulate the testing and sampling techniques that would be employed, including size, method and frequency of sampling, analytical method to be employed, locations where samples should be
(e) The recommended optimum drying temperature is 50-60 Celsius degrees and relative humidity in the drying chamber should be reduced for the spice to achieve a safe moisture level (12-14% has been shown to be safe in most cases).
The objective of this document is to establish a general code of practice for the prevention and reduction of mycotoxins in spices in order to attain as low as reasonably achievable levelof these toxins by ap plying specific Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs), Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs) and Good Storage Practices (GSPs) throughout all the steps in the food chain, thus reducing consumers’ exposure through preventive measures.
It is recommended that diseased and injured plants or parts thereof be removed from the field in order to reduce the inoculum load of toxigenic fungi.
Containers and transportation devices (e.g. wagons, trucks) to be used for collecting and transporting the harvested commodity from the field to drying and storage facilities after drying, should be clean, dry and free of crop residues, old plants, plant dust, insects and visible fungal growth before use and re-use.
Relative humidity of storage conditions should be controlled as appropriate, for example, less than 75% for lower water activity of source plant.
The drying area should be elevated to prevent pest ingress and potential flooding, and should be constructed of a material that can easily be cleaned and that will not contaminate the stored spices.
It is important that the operator select reliable transport service-providers that adopt this code of practice and ensure appropriate transport conditions.
Trucks must be clean, dry and odour-free which helps to prevent cross contamination from previously transported products.
Removal of discarded plant material should be done on a regular basis in order to avoid accumulation that could promote the presence of pests.
Use of the saddle stow method, which minimizes side contact and maximizes airflow between the bags, is recommended.
Quick frozen food Food which has been subjected to a quick freezing process, and maintained at -18C or colder at all points in the cold chain, subject to permitted temperature tolerances.
In addition to the provisions of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969) the following additional prerequisite provisions should apply:
The following specifications are recommended for the system, i.e. sensor and read-out:  the system should have an accuracy of 6 0.56C within the measuring range -206C to +306C;  the response time should achieve 90% of the difference between initial and final readings within three minutes;  the display resolution of the read-out should be 0.16C;  the measuring accuracy should not change by more than 0.3 6C during operation in the ambient range -206C to +306C;  the system should be calibrated or otherwise verified prior to use and at specified intervals against measurement standards traceable to international or national measurement standards;  the accuracy of the system should be checked at regular intervals;  the system should be robust and the device and equipment should be shock-proof; and  the electrical components of the system should be protected against undesirable effects due to condensation of moisture.
After inserting the probe, the temperature should be read when it has reached a stable value.
Product surface temperature measurement undertaken non-destructively should:  measure the temperature between cases on a pallet or between packages inside a carton;  use sufficient pressure to give good thermal contact, and sufficient length of probe inserted to minimize conductivity errors; and  use a probe with a flat surface to give good surface thermal contact, low thermal mass, and high thermal conductivity.
 where this is not possible because of the size of the produc t, the probe should be inserted to a minimum depth from the surface of 3 or 4 times the diameter of the probe.
In the case of power losses or equipment failure, a contingency plan should be in place in order to maintain the product temperature.
Training programs should be in place (either formal training courses or training provided whilst working) to ensure that staff have these skills and knowledge.
Proper maintenance and repair of any damage to the cold store and its infrastructure (e.g. prevention of rust, water leaks, ice accumulation, etc.) should be ensured so that insulation and refrigeration performance is maintained.
The traceability/product tracing system should be designed and implemented according to the Principles for Traceability/Product Tracing as a Tool within a Food Inspection and Certification System (CXG 60-2006), especially to enable the withdrawal of the product, where necessary.
The use of freezing as a food safety control measure should, as with all food safety control measures, be appropriately validated to ensure that the measure is capable of controlling the hazard4.
The packaging or re-packing of quick frozen foods should be carried out in such a manner that an increase in temperature, within the permitted tolerances of the quick frozen foods, does not adversely affect the safety and quality of the product.
The labelling of packaged quick frozen foods should comply with the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) and the relevant CXSdards for quick frozen foods.
Loading into and unloading from vehicles and loading into and unloading from cold stores should be as fast as practicable and the methods used should minimize product temperature rise.
• Operations (such as casing, order assembly, palletizing, etc.) should be carried out in the cold store or in a suitably temperature-controlled area.
The retail establishment should have an appropriate back-up storage for quick frozen foods that allows products to be kept at a temperature of -18ºC.
When quick frozen foods are being inspected in the cold chain, either before loading or during unloading, a stepwise approach is recommended.
The selection of temperature monitoring equipment should take into account: • appropriate accuracy and resolution (depends on the construction of the equipment and its use); • ability to withstand vibrations, shocks or movement (for mobile system); • coverage of temperature range adequate for quick frozen foods; and • need for calibration and periodic checks to ensure proper functioning.
In the case of compromised safety the competent authorities should also be notified.
Records of these measurements should be kept for a period that exceeds the shelf-life of the product or as required by competent authorities.
New temperature measuring and recording devices may be developed and should be used as appropriate.
This is normally undertaken by checking against a calibrated thermometer placed in an equilibrated ice bath.
In open cabinets, the temperature should be measured in the return air, at the load line level, or at the warmest place.
This standard applies to dried laver, roasted laver , and seasoned laver products of the genus Pyropia, which are defined in Section 2 below, and offered for direct consumption, including for catering purposes or for repackaging and further processing if required.
Seasoned laver products shall be of food grade quality and conform to all applicable Codex standards.
The final product shall maintain its own flavour and colour, which represent s its raw materials and processing methods and shall be free from off-flavours.
A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Section 3.2, should be considered as defective.
The flavourings used in these products should comply with the Guidelines for the Use of Flavourings (CXG 66-2008).2
The products should also comply with other microbiological criteria established in accordance with Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
In addition, the products shall be packaged to protect them from moisture.
The net contents of the product shall be expressed in the unit of weight (“g” or “kg”) or in the unit of the number of sheet, or in a combination of these two.
In the case where the edible seaweeds other than Pyropia are included as optional ingredients, this fact should be reflected in the name of the products.
For retail packages, weight must be declared in accordance with the requirement of the importing country.
In addition, edible foreign matters shall be identified and appropriately declared on the label of the container or in the accompanying documents.
A container that fails to meet the requirement for net contents of Section 7.1 should be considered as a defective.
Advice on specific applications should be acquired from scientific organizations, competent authorities, process control experts or related sources of scientific expertise that can provide the specific principles and best practices upon which the validation of a specific control measure should be based.
Care should be taken to ensure that statistically valid surveys or other activity provide data that are accurate and appropriate for use by an individual food business operator or competent authority.
Decision criteria should take into account the uncertainty and variability associated with the validation methodology and the performance of the control measure or combination of control measures.
Determine that the technology to be used will consistently produce tree nuts that have water activity levels < 0.70 within 24 h. The available scientific literature and related scientific data relating water activity levels to aflatoxin production in tree nuts should be reviewed to determine their pertinence to the specific procedures being
The label will state: “To avoid illness, refrigerate eggs at 5ºC (41ºF) and cook eggs until the yolk is firm.”
Use of scientifically valid experimental data to demonstrate the adequacy of the control measures A representative survey of consumers
Design a statistically-valid survey to determine  Current consumer practices  Whether the label is understandable  Whether consumers plan to change their current practices, if necessary, based on the label instructions.
Determine the percentage of the population that indicates that they plan to change their current practice and follow the label instructions.
Document the survey results
1. Pre-validation Tasks: a. Hazard: Metal fragments b. Food Safety Outcome: Less than 1 metal fragment over 2 mm in 100,000 kg of product. c. Control Measure: Introduction of a sieve into a production line 2. Approach: Collection of data during normal operation.
The new inspection package would limit slicing to a minimum.
The raw or dried fruit should be moved to suitable storage, or to the processing area for immediate processing, as soon
Such yards should as far as possible comply with such of the provisions of Section IV of this code as are applicable, and in particular with the following requirements.
Fumigation methods and chemicals used should be approved by legal authorities having jurisdiction.
While additional and more specific requirements may be established for certain products, the following should apply as minimal in all food production, handling, storage and distribution:
They should also be so located that they have proper and adequate drainage.
Drying trays, cutting equipment, and storage bins should be kept clean and free from fruit residue and foreign substances that may cause contamination of the fruit.
In areas experiencing high concentrations of air-borne pollutants, equipment should be used to remove pollutants from the air blown across or through the product.
The facilities should be kept in a sanitary condition at all times.
Critical areas, equipment for cleaning and materials should be designated for specific attention as part of a permanent sanitation schedule.
Analytical procedures should follow recognized or standard methods in order that the results may be readily interpreted.
Appropriate methods should be used for sampling, analysis, and determination in the following specifications.
This standardi applies to edible acid casein, edible rennet casein and edible caseinate, intended for direct consumption or further processing, in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this standard.
The name of the food shall be: - Edible acid casein According to the descriptions in Section 2 and the compositions in Section 3.3. - Edible caseinate - Edible rennet casein The name of edible caseinate shall be accompanied by an indication of the cation used.
For checking compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999) relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
The product must be free from offensive flavours and odours.
According to good manufacturing practices, gari shall be practically free from extraneous matter.
– shall be free from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; – shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and – shall not contain any substance originating from micro-organisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “gari”.
However, lot identification, and the name and address of the manufacturer, packer, distributor and/or importer may be replaced by an identification mark provided that such a mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).
This standard applies to cocoa powders (cocoas) and dry mixtures of cocoa and sugars intended for direct consumption.
“Cocoa Powder” and “Fat-reduced Cocoa Powder” and "Highly Fat -reduced Cocoa Powder" are the products obtained from cocoa cake (Cf. Standard for Cocoa (Cacao) Mass (Cocoa/Chocolate Liquor) and Cocoa Cake) transformed into powder.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) the following apply:
The descriptions of the products defined in Section 3.1.2 shall be used as the name of the food in each case.
The words “minimum cocoa powder (or fat-reduced cocoa powder or highly fat-reduced cocoa powder) content x%” shall be declared in accordance with dispositions of Section 5.1.1 of the General Standard for Labelling of Prepackaged Foods, where required by national legislation.
In addition the following specific requirements shall apply:
In all varieties, subject to the special provisions for each variety and tolerances allowed , the leaf shall be:  whole;  sound; produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded ;  clean; practically free of any visible foreign matter;  practically free of pest affecting the general appearance of the produce;  free of abnormal external moisture excluding condensation following removal from cold storage ;  fresh appearance, with a minimum water content of 60 percent;  practically free of damage caused by pests; and  free of any foreign smell and/or taste.
The Gnetum spp. leaves must be carefully picked and have reached a sufficient level of maturity.
The leaves or sliced leaves in this class shall be of one type , of superior quality, well developed and of characteristic colour for the type . At least 95 percent of the leaves, on weight basis, conform well to these requirements.
The Gnetum spp. leaves in this class shall consist of leaves that meet the requirements of the extra class, except a small amount of young leaves of not more than 10 percent of the total amount of leaves, on the weight basis is acceptable.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985),2 the specific provisions below apply.
The product must meet the microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).7
The Gnetum spp. leaves must be packaged and transported in accordance with the Code of Practice for the Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruit and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).1
The contents of each package (sales unit) must be uniform and contain only the leaves of the same quality, in conformity with classification requirements.
In addition the following specific requirements shall apply: Each package must bear the following particular s, in letters grouped on the same side , legibly and indelibly marked, and visible from the outside or in the document accompanying the shipment.
Subject to the provisions of this Standard, Codex Standards for individual varieties of unripened cheese may contain provisions, which are more specific than those in this Standard and in these cases; those specific provisions shall apply.
The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Appl ication of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) and the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999), the following specific provisions apply.
The milk fat content shall be declared in a manner found acceptable in the country of sale to the final consumer, either (i) as a percentage by mass, (ii) as a percentage of fat in dry matter, or (iii) in grams per serving as quantified in the label, provided that the number of servings is stated.
In addition to the general provisions applicable to quick-frozen vegetables, the following specific provisions apply:
2.2.1 General requirements Quick-frozen leek shall have similar varietal characteristics and be free from objectionable tough parts; and with respect to visual defects or other defects subject to a tolerance, shall be: (a) free from yellow and/or yellowish leaves; (b) reasonably free from damage such as staining, discolouration, or insect injury; (c) reasonably free from extraneous vegetable material (EVM); (d) reasonably well trimmed; (e) practically free from loose or detached leaves (in whole style only); and (f) practically free from hard parts as “seed heads”.
Any standard sample unit, which fails to comply with the quality requirements, as set out in Sections 2.1.1, 2.1.6 and 2.2.1 shall be regarded as a “defective”.
In applying the accept ance procedure each “defective”, as indicated in Section 2.2, is treated individually for the respective characteristics.
The processing aids used for products covered by this standard shall comply with the Guidelines on substances used as processing aids (CXG 75-2010).2
The flavourings used in products covered by this standard shall comply with the Guidelines for the use of flavourings (CXG 66-2008).6
In addition to the provisions provided for in the corresponding annexes, quick-frozen vegetables shall:  have a reasonably uniform colour characteristic of the variety;  be sound, clean, practically free from sand, grit and other foreign material;  be practically free from pests and damage caused by them; and  have a normal flavour and odour/smell, taking into consideration any added ingredients as indicated in Section 3.1.
Analytical characteristics should be in accordance with the provisions provided for in the corresponding annexes.
Certain common defects should not be present in amounts greater than the limitations provided for in the corresponding annexes.
8.1 Net weight The weight of the products covered by the provisions of this standard shall be indicated in accordance with the General standard for the labelling of pre-packaged foods (CXS 1-1985).8 When the vegetables are glazed, in conformity with a specific annex, the declaration of net content of the foods shall be exclusive of the glaze.
9.1 The products covered by the provisions of this standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General standard for the labelling of pre-packaged foods.8 In addition, the following specific provisions apply:
The weight of the products covered by the provisions of this standard shall be indicated in accordance with the General standard for the labelling of pre-packaged foods (CXS 1-1985).8 When the vegetables are glazed, in conformity with a specific annex, the declaration of net content of the foods shall be exclusive of the glaze.
Packaging used for quick-frozen vegetables shall be in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Code of practice for the processing and handling of quick-frozen foods (CXC 8-1976).5
The labelling of non -retail containers should be in accordance with the General standard for the labelling of non-retail containers of foods (CXS 346-2021).9
(e) Sliced/French cut: pods sliced lengthwise or at an angle up to approximately 45  to the longitudinal axis, with a maximum thickness of 7 mm.
The predominant colour of the pods of wax beans excluding the seeds and immediate surrounding tissue shall be yellow, or yellow with a green tinge.
The alcohol-insoluble solids content as determined by the method specified in the Recommended methods of analysis and sampling (CXS 234-1999) must not exceed: (a) for peas /garden peas 23% m/m; (b) for sweet green peas 19% m/m. Quick-frozen spinach shall be practically free from tough fibrous material and for the styles of “whole leaf” and “cut leaf” not materially disintegrated due to mechanical damage; and, with respect to visual defects or other defects subject to a tolerance, shall be: (a) well drained and containing no excess water; (b) practically free from sand and grit; (c) practically free from loose or detached leaves in “whole” style only; (d) practically free from root material; (e) reasonably free from discoloured leaves or portions thereof; (f) reasonably free from flower stems (seed heads);
The standard sample size for segregating and evaluating visual defects shall be as indicated in Table 1.
The name of the product shall include the designation “spinach”.
(a) the words “large florets”, “medium florets”, “small florets” or “cut florets” as appropriate; and/or (b) by a correct representation on the label of the size range to which the florets predominantly conform; and/or; (c) the customary method of declaring size in the country of retail sale.
Any minimum sample unit which fails to comply with the quality requirements, as set out in Sections 1. 2.1, 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 2.2.1 and 2.2.4 shall be regarded as a “defective”.
In applying the acceptance procedure each “defective”, as indicated in Sections 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 2.2.1 and 2.2.4, is treated individually for the respective characteristics.
Table 1 – Whole leek Defect Defect categories Minor Major Total (a) Discolouration (i) Minor 2 (ii) Major 2 (b) Damaged 2 (c) EVM 1 (d) Roots 2 (e) Parts of roots 1 (f) Poorly trimmed 2 (g) Loose leaves 1 Total allowable points 8 6 10 (Sample size 20 pieces) Table 2 – Leek, cut leek, leek rings and chopped leek Defect Defect categories Minor Major Total (a) Discolouration - Minor 2 - Major 2 (b) Damaged 2 (c) EVM 1 (d) Roots 2 (e) Parts of roots 1 (f) Poorly trimmed 2 For separation and enumeration of visual defects the test sample (standard sample size) is placed in water in a deep tray, and the leaves or leaf portion separated one by one.
The standard sample size for sizing shall be 1 kg.
(a) it shall be supported by the sieve size in mm; and/or (b) the words “very small”, “small”, “medium” or “large” as appropriate; and/or (c) by a size representation on the label of the size range to which the Brussels sprouts predominantly conform; and/or (d) the customary method of declaring size in the country in which the product is sold.
It shall contain no more than 20 percent either by number or weight of peas of the next two larger adjoining sizes when applicable.
Minor Major Serious Total (a) Loose leaves (whole style only) Each leaf 1 (b) Discolouration Each 4 cm² (i) Minor 1 (ii) Major 2 (c) EVM Each 5 cm (i) Minor 1 (ii) Major 2 (d) Seed heads Each whole head 2 Each portion 1 (e) Crown (exclusive of “whole” style) Each whole crown 2 Each part (f) Root material Each piece 4 Total allowable points 20 10 4 20
The products shall have received a processing treatment sufficient to ensure commercial sterility.
The products shall be prepared from sound fish of the species in sub-section 2.1 and of a quality fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
When tested by appropriate methods of sampling and examination as prescribed by the Codex Alimentarius Commission, the product: (i) shall be free from micro-organisms capable of development under normal conditions of storage; (ii) no sample unit shall contain histamine that exceeds 20 mg per 100 g; (iii) shall not contain any other substance including substances derived from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health in accordance with standards established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission; (iv) shall be free from container integrity defects which may compromise the hermetic seal.
The name of the packing medium shall form part of the name of the food.
(i) Sampling of lots for examination of the final product as prescribed in Section 3.3 shall be in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (ii) Sampling of lots for examination of net weight and drained weight where appropriate shall be carried out in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan established by the CAC.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with the procedures set out in Sections 7.3 through 7.5, Annex A and the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CXG 31 - 1999).
(ii) Remove and place the contents onto a tared 1.2 cm mesh screen equipped with a collecting pan.
Assess odour, flavour and texture in accordance with the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CAC/GL 31-1999).
For the education of producers, handlers and processors, and providing information on testing to relevant parties, the following should be observed:
The implementation of HACCP principles will minimise mycotoxin contamination through applications of preventive control measures to the extent feasible, mainly during storage and processing of cereals.
Air-stream cleaning should be used, as far as possible, to remove ergot sclerotia and dust from the grain.
The bags should facilitate aeration and be made of non-toxic food-grade materials that do not attract insects or rodents and are sufficiently strong to resist storage for longer periods.
The mycotoxin level in inbound and outbound grain should also be measured when relevant, using adequate sampling and testing programs that is appropriate to the mycotoxin monitoring system.
Since rodent pests can damage the crop during storage, the storage facility must be kept free of rodents such as rats and mice to the extent possible.
Care must be taken because these compounds can negatively affect the taste and odour of the grain.
All waste material should be disposed of in a manner to prevent re-entry into the food or feed supply chain.
Refer to paragraphs 44 -46 in the general Code of Practice.
At unloading, the transport container should be emptied of all cargo and cleaned as appropriate.
Minimise temperature fluctuations and measures that may cause condensation to form on the grain, which could lead to local moisture build-up and consequent fungal growth and mycotoxin formation.
Lots containing higher levels of mycotoxins should undergo extensive cleaning and processing that significantly decreases mycotoxins to acceptable levels in order to guarantee a safe product to consumers.
Caution and proper procedures should be followed when using such removed fractions as animal feed.
Such containers must deter insect and rodent infestation and should be subject to integrated pest control measures.
The starter cultures should be maintained pure, viable and sealed to prevent water access and other contamination.
Therefore, steeping should be carried out in weatherproof containers under controlled atmosphere.
Refer to paragraph 11 in the general Code of Practice.
Refer to paragraphs 34 -43 in the general Code of Practice.
Refer to paragraphs 12-16 in the general Code of Practice.
This Annex refers to the control of the Claviceps species only.
7. Refer to paragraphs 28-33 in the general Code of Practice.
2. Refer to paragraph 11 in the general Code of Practice.
4. Refer to paragraphs 17-23 in the general Code of Practice.
1. Good Agricultural Practices and Good Manufacturing Practices include methods to reduce Fusarium infection (mainly F. verticillioides and F. proliferatum) and fumonisin contamination of cereals during the crop growth and development, harvest, storage, transport and processing.
8. Refer to paragraphs 34-43 in the general Code of Practice.
3. Refer to paragraphs 12-16 in the general Code of Practice.
9. Refer to paragraphs 44-46 in the general Code of Practice.
1. Good Agricultural Practices and Good Manufacturing Practices include methods to reduce Aspergillus (mainly A. ochraceus and related species, A. carbonarius and A. niger) and Penicillium (mainly P. verrucosum) infection and ochratoxin A (OTA) contamination of cereals during crop growth and development, harvest, storage, transport and processing.
Utilisation of the crop as food or animal feed should be based on prevalence of infection and mycotoxin content of the grain.
Good Agricultural Practices and Good Manufacturing Practices include methods to reduce aflatoxigenic fungi infection (mainly A. flavus, A. parasiticus and A. nomius) and aflatoxin production in cereals during the crop growth and development, harvest, storage, transport and processing.
Natural mineral water should be recognized as such by the responsible authority of the stat e, in which the natural mineral water has emerged.
Natural mineral water in its packaged state shall contain not more than the following amounts of the substances indicated hereunder:
For this purpose, and in particular: a) the installations for collection, the pipes and the reservoirs shall be made from materials suited to the water and in such a way as to prevent the introduction of foreign substances into the water; b) the equipment and its use for production, especially installations for washing and packaging, shall meet hygienic requirements; c) if, during production it is found that the water is polluted, the producer shall stop all operations until the cause of pollution is eliminated; d) the observance of the above provisions shall be subject to periodic checks in accordance with the requirements of the country of origin.
During marketing, natural mineral water should conform to the microbiological criteria as defined in Annex I of the Code of Hygienic Practice for Collecting, Processing and Marketing of Natural Mineral Waters (CXC 33-1985).
Natural mineral water shall be packed in hermetically sealed retail containers suitable for preventing the possible adulteration or contamination of water.
The location of the source and the name of the source shall be declared.
The analytical composition giving characteristics to the product shall be declared in the labelling.
In the case of the “Extra” Class, the bunches must be packed in a single layer.
Name of the variety or , where applicable, names of varieties.
Country of origin or, where applicable, countries of origin and, optionally, district where grown or national, regional or local place name.
- Class; - Net weight (optional); - “Bunches below 75 g intended for single servings”, if appropriate.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the cape gooseberries must be: - whole, with or without calyx; - sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; - practically free of damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage ; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste2; - firm; - fresh in appearance; - with a smooth and shiny skin. If the calyx is present, the peduncle must not exceed 25 mm in length.
Cape gooseberries are classified in three classes defined below, regardless of size and colour:
The development and condition of the cape gooseberries must be such as to enable them: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
The soluble solids content should be at least 14.0°Brix.
Cape gooseberries shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type.
It excludes BWG peppers intended for industrial processing.
b) Berries are treated in an appropriate manner to obtain the above products, by undergoing operations such as threshing, sieving a nd sifting, soaking, washing, blanching, drying or dehydrating, decorticating, grading, crushing and grinding.
Any commercially cultivated variety (cultivar) of Piper nigrum L. suitable for processing.
The quality factors for BWG peppers are determined based on the physical and chemical characteristics, as given below.
The product shall be free from foreign odours, flavours and free from any other harmful substances.
Whole with globular shape with or without wrinkled pericarp.
Pinheads – Developed from unfertilized flowers, berries with a diameter of less than 2 mm with more angularity than normal berries, they have soft texture (collapse under heavy pressure) and have less odour and flavour than pepper berries.
a The volatile oil content should be determined immediately after grinding.
The products covered by the provisions of this standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).5 In addition, the following specific provisions apply:
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999)7 relevant to the provisions in this standard shall be used.
A container sample that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Section 3.2 (except those based on sample averages), should be considered as a defective.
The name of the product shall be “black pepper” (pepper corn), “white pepper” or “green pepper”.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers in Foods (CXS 346-2021).6
These guidelines apply to food information that is accessed by consumers using technology via a reference on a pre-packaged food’s labeli or labelling.i
These guidelines should be read in conjunction with Codex texts related to labelling of pre -packaged foods, including but not limited to General standard for the labelling of pre-packaged foods (CXS 1-1985).1
In cases where food labelling information is not accessible to consumers, due to conditions of sale or to exemptions from having to be provided on the label or labelling, consideration should be given to the use of technology to provide consumers with access to that information.
Where mandatory food information is provided using technology, the reference on the label or labelling shall link directly to this information, and the mandatory food information shall be presented together, readily identifiable and easily distinguishable from other information.
Where food information is provided using technology, it shall be provided to the consumer without a charge to access the information.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the mangosteens must be: - whole; - with the calyx and pedicel intact; - sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; - practically free of damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste; - fresh in appearance, have a shape, colour and taste characteristic of the species; - free of latex; - free of pronounced blemishes; - allowing the fruit to be cut open normally.
Mangosteens are classified in three classes defined below:
The development and condition of the mangosteens must be such as to enable them: ­ to ensure a continuation of the ripening process until they reach the appropriate degree of ripeness (the skin should be at least of a pink colour); ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
Size is determined by the weight or the diameter of the equatorial section of the fruit, in accordance with the following table: Size Code Weight (in grams) Diameter (in millimetres) A 30 - 50 38 - 45 B 51 - 75 46 - 52 C 76 - 100 53 - 58 D 101 - 125 59 - 62 E > 125 > 62
Mangosteens shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Recommended International Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44-1995).
- Class; - Size (size code or minimum and maximum weight or length in grams or millimetres, respectively); - Net weight (optional).
Dried or dehydrated small cardamom is a product obtained from the dried fruits of the plant Elettaria cardamomum (L.) Maton of Zingiberaceae family as described in Table 1. Table 1. Common, trade and scientific name of dried small cardamom Common name Trade name Scientific name Small cardamom Cardamom, Green cardamom Elettaria cardamomum (L.) Maton
The product as described in Section 2 above shall conform to the requirements contained in Annex I.
The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General standard for contaminants and toxins in food and feed (CXS 193-1995),2 the Code of practice for the prevention and reduction of mycotoxins in spices (CXC 78-2017)3 and other relevant Codex texts.
The product shall have a characteristic odour, flavour and colour, which can vary depending on geoclimatic factors/conditions, and shall be free from any foreign odour, flavour, and colour especially from rancidity and mustiness.
6.2 The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and guidelines for the establishment and application of microbiological criteria related to foods (CXG 21-1997).6
8.1 The products co vered by the provisions of this standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General standard for the labelling of pre -packaged foods (CXS 1-1985).7 In addition, the following specific provisions apply:
9.1 Methods of analysis For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended methods of analysis and sampling (CXS 234-1999)9 relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
Both parties should verify that legal authority exists to discuss and enter into such an agreement.
For food safety control measures, the importing country should
