This appendix applies only to Brazil nuts, given the very specific conditions related to their collection and processing.
These guidelines represent a first step toward s harmonization or international recognition of criteria for exempting active substances , or their authorized uses, of low public health concern from the requirement to establish MRLs.
These guidelines are intended to be used by competent authorities in countries that do not have established criteria for MRL exemption for active substances or specific authorized uses of active substances in their respective legislation.
Case -by-case considerations are needed taking into account the specificities of each substance and the exposure levels.
The following definitions apply for this standard:
In addition, the lucuma must be fresh in appearance and characteristic of the variety in shape and external colour.
The development and condition of the lucuma must be such as to enable it to: withstand transport and handling; and arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
The defects must not, in any case, affect the pulp of the produce.
The lucuma shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).1
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).3 In addition, the following specific requirement shall apply:
8.2 The produce covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
(b) packed with water or other suitable liquid packing medium, and which may contain seasonings or flavourings appropriate for the product; and (c) processed by heat in an appropriate manner before or after being sealed in a container so as to prevent spoilage.
The products shall contain fruits in the following proportions, based on the individual drained fruit weights in relation to the total drained weight of all the fruits: 5 fruits – fruit cocktail 4 fruits – fruit cocktail Peaches 30% to 50% 30% to 50% Pears 25% to 45% 25% to 45% Pineapple 6% to 16% 6% to 25% and either Grapes 6% to 20% 6% to 20% or Cherries 2% to 6% 2% to 15%
Cut-out strength of sweetened juice of syrup is to be determined on sample average, but no container may have a Brix value lower than that of the minimum of the next category below, if applicable.
canned fruit cocktail shall have normal colour except that a slight leaching of colour from the coloured cherries is acceptable.
Canned fruit cocktail with special ingredients shall have the flavour characteristic of that imparted by the fruits in the product and the other substances used.
the fruit ingredients shall not be excessively firm nor excessively soft, as is appropriate for the respective fruit.
A container shall be considered a “defective” when it fails to meet one or more of: (1) the applicable requirements in 2.3.1 through 2.3.4 (except for style and shapes for grapes and cherries which are based on averages); and (2) the applicable quality requirements in 2.4.1 through 2.4.4 (except for peel, pit material, and stems which are based on averages).
7.1.3 When the packing medium is composed of water, or water and one or more fruit juices in which water predominates, the packing medium shall be declared as part of the name or in close proximity thereto as: “In water” or “Packed in water”.
A container that fails to meet the requirement for minimum fill (90 percent container capacity) of 6.1.1 shall be considered a “defective”.
7.2.1 A complete list of ingredients shall be declared on the label in descending order of proportion in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985)2 except as provided for in 7.2.2 and 7.2.3.
For checking compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-999)3 relevant to the provisions in this standard shall be used.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the apples must be: ­ whole, the stalk (stem) may be missing, provided the break is clean and the adjacent skin is not damaged; ­ sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; ­ firm1; ­ clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; ­ practically free of pests and damage caused by them affecting the general appearance of the produce; ­ free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; ­ free of any foreign smell and/or taste; ­ free of damage caused by low and/or high temperatures; ­ practically free of signs of dehydration.
In accordance with the defects allowed in the Annex - Maximum Allowance for Defects, apples are classified in three classes defined below:
The development and condition of the apples must be such as to enable them: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
They must be free of defects, with the exception of very slight superficial defects, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package2.
Apples shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
Baby foods in ready-to-eat form are processed by heat before or after being sealed in their containers, and baby foods in dry form are processed by physical means, in each case so as to prevent spoilage.
Fish, meat and poultry ingredients shall be practically free of bone pieces.
5.2 The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides and/or veterinary drugs established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
If in ready-to-eat form, it shall be packed in hermetically sealed container.
Only the food additives listed in food category 13.2 (Complementary foods for infants and young children) of the CXS 192-1995 may be present in the foods conforming to this standard, as a result of carry-over from a raw material or other ingredient (including food additive) used to produce the food, subject to the following conditions: a) The amount of the food additive in the raw materials or other ingredients (including food additives) does not exceed the maximum level specified; and b) The food into which the food additive is carried over does not contain the food additive in greater quantity than would be introduced by the use of the raw materials or ingredients under good manufacturing practice, consistent with the provisions on carry-over in the Preamble of the CXS 192-1995.
The name of the product shall be that of the major or characterizing ingredient(s) accompanied by words suitable to indicate the consistency or intended use.
The declaration of nutrition information shall contain the following information in the following order: (a) The amount of energy, expressed in calories (Kcal) and/or kilojoules (kJ), and the number of grammes of protein, carbohydrate and fat per 100 grammes of the food as sold as well as per specified quantity of the food as suggested for consumption; (b) in addition to any other nutritional information required by national legislation, the total quantity in the final product of each vitamin and mineral added according to Section 3.1.2, shall be declared per 100 g as well as according to the serving size of the food suggested for consumption.
Directions as to the preparation and use of the food and its storage and keeping before and after the container has been opened, shall appear on the label or on the accompanying leaflet.
This Standard applies to dried shark fins intended for further processing.
The fins shall be subjected to a drying process so as to meet the requirements of Section 3.2.4 and shall comply with the conditions laid down hereafter.
Dried shark fins shall be prepared from sound sharks which are of a quality fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
The final product shall be free from foreign material.
The product shall be free from objectionable odours.
The dried shark fins shall be free from objectionable textural characteristics.
In addition to the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1 -1985), the following specific provisions shall apply:
(i) shall be free from microorganisms or substances originating from microorganisms in amounts which may present a hazard to health in accordance with standards established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission ; (ii) shall not contain any other substance in amounts which may present a hazard to health in accordance with standards established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The name of the product shall be "dried shark fins" or any other appropriate name in accordance with the law and custom of the country in which the product is to be distributed.
(i) Sampling of lots for examination of the product shall be in accordance with an appropiate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (ii) The sampling of lots for examination of net weight shall be carried out according to the Codex Sampling Plans for the Determination of Net Weight (under elaboration).
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with the procedures set out in Section 7.3, Annex B "Sensoric and Physical Examination"1 and the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CAC/GL 31 - 1999).
The net weight (exclusive of packaging material) of ea ch sample unit in the sample lot shall be determined.
These guidelines should be used together with other existing Codex Alimentarius textsiii and/or other relevant national, regional and internationally recognized documents.
The scope of th ese guidelines is to provide guidance to CCAFRICA Member Countries in developing or updating food safety legislation along the food chain including food traded nationally, regionally, and internationally.
The purpose of these guidelines is to: a) enable CCAFRICA Member Countries to develop harmonized food safety legislation in order to strengthen science and risk-based food control systems; b) provide the general concepts and principles governing food safety legislation that will lead to the establishment of well-coordinated national and regional food control systems; and c) promote an integrated approach to food safety along the entire food chain and facilitate intra-African and international food trade.
Further, food safety legislation should have provisions to support food safety education, communication, and training.
Food safety legislation should have provisions for protecting the health of consumers as a primary priority.
The food safety legislation should cover the entire food chain from primary production to consumption.
Risk analysis should be applied consistently; open, transparent and documented; evaluated and reviewed as appropriate in the light of newly generated scientific data.
The food safety legislation should have the following elements:
Food safety legislation should be part of a robust national policy framework, and mechanisms for its regular review and updates should be provided for.
The definitions should be aligned to internationally-accepted texts as well as ensuring their clarity and without ambiguity.
The powers vested in the government or executive authority under these enabling provisions should relate to the formulation of rules for the implementation of the law and for the intervention of the authority in order to ensure that the laws and its accompanying regulations are being observed.
This should include administrative actions, sanctions, seizure, inspection, prohibition and prosecution among others by enforcement agencies.
The legislation should provide and list the specific offences it covers, either by reference or in the sections providing for fines and penalties.
The regulations should be guided by the objectives of the Act.
The food safety legislation should make provision for a mechanism to facilitate performance of official controls, e.g. fees, levies and charges for official control services rendered.
For foodborne AMR risk analysis, communication should bring industry (producer, food processor, pharmaceutical, etc.), consumer representatives, government officials and other interested parties (public health experts, medical professionals, etc.) together to discuss problems, priorities and strategies.
This list is for illustration and is not intended to be exhaustive and not all elements may be applicable in all situations.
Information on antimicrobial agents should be made available by the pharmaceutical or other relevant industries in the form of labelling, data sheets or leaflets to ensure the safe and effective use of antimicrobial agents, in compliance with national regulations.
These are generally determined by the risk managers in conjunction with interested parties and in consultation with risk assessors on scientific aspects of the issues.
Following development of the risk profile and the ranking of the AMR food safety issues for risk assessment/risk management priority, risk managers should decide on the preliminary risk management goals that determine the next steps to be taken, if any, to address the identified AMR food safety issue.
Where necessary, risk managers should ask risk assessors to evaluate the potential changes in risk resulting from different RMOs.
Information that may be documented in the commissioning of the risk assessment includes: • a description of the specific AMR food safety issue (as defined in the AMR risk profile); • the scope and purpose of the risk assessment; • the specific questions to be answered by the risk assessment; • the preferred type (e.g. quantitative or qualitative) of risk assessment to be conducted; • the expertise and resources required to carry out the risk assessment; and • timelines for milestones and completion of the risk assessment and its review.
Possible sources of information: • surveillance programmes (see Section 9); • epidemiological investigations of outbreaks and sporadic cases associated with AMR microorganisms; • clinical studies including case reports on the relevant foodborne infectious disease incidence, primary and secondary transmission, antimicrobial therapy and impacts of resistance on disease frequency and severity; • national/regional treatment guidelines for foodborne microorganisms, including information on the medical importance of , and potential impacts of , increased resistance in target or other microorganisms to alternative treatments; • studies on interaction between microorganisms and their environment through the food production to consumption continuum (e.g. litter, water, faeces and sewage); • investigations of the characteristics of AMR microorganisms and determinants (and in vivo); • research on properties of antimicrobial agents, including their resistance to selection potential (in vitro and in vivo), and transfer of genetic elements and the dissemination of AMR microorganisms in the environment; • studies on the link between resistance, virulence and/or fitness (e.g. survivability or adaptability) of the microorganism; • studies on the pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics associated with selection of AMR in any given setting; • laboratory and / or field animal/crop trials addressing the link between antimicrobial agent usage and resistance (particularly regional data); • science-based expert opinion; and • existing microbiological and AMR risk assessments.
In accordance with the Working Principles for Risk Analysis for Food Safety for Application by Governments (CXG 62-2007), quantitative data should be used to the greatest extent possible without discounting the utility of available qualitative information.
The selection of the final risk measures should generally have been defined
Examples of regulatory controls on conditions of use of antimicrobial agents on crops: • pre-market assessment and approval • marketing status limitation • restrict extra-/off-label use • extent of use limitation • limit use to conditions when crops are known to be at risk of developing disease • withdrawal of the marketing authorization Evaluate the safety of viable microorganisms used in food and feed crop production for their potential to introduce and spread AMR.
Over and above what can be put in place as good hygienic practice, specific RMOs can address AMR issues.
These approaches should be expanded to incorporate risk management measures specific to foodborne AMR.
Develop, disseminate and use international standards for: • bacterial culture and antimicrobial susceptibility testing • interpretive criteria Implement biosecurity and infection control programmes to prevent the presence and transmission of foodborne AMR microorganisms and determinants between crops and from crops to humans.
Design treatment procedures to control AMR microorganisms and/or antimicrobial agents that could lead to their emergence in biosolids, wastewater, manure and other waste-based fertilizers identified as contributing to a specific food safety problem.
Messages aimed to inform and engage specific audiences need to be presented in appropriate media.
The risk profile should incorporate, to the extent possible, information on the following:
• Pathogenicity, virulence and their linkage to resistance.
• Existing or potential human and non-human uses of the antimicrobial agents and related drugs.
An example of integration is presented in Table 2.
Identification and definition of the criteria should be done with the assistance of experts.
24. The method used for normalizing should be developed by experts and fully documented.
Ranking of the scores of each of the hazard/feed/edible product combinations yields the prioritized list, which reflects both the normalized criteria values and the weighting of the criteria.
This should include: - The rationale for the choice of hazard/feed/edible product combinations; - The rationale for the criteria; - The rationale for the normalization method; - The rationale for the weightings; - An estimate of the sensitivity of the ranking to the normalization method and the weightings, if conducted; - Identification of all data gaps, assumptions and uncertainties. The report should include full documentation as described in paragraph 30 of the Guidance.
In a real-life situation, details of the process, particularly the criteria definitions, quantification, normalization of the values and weighting of the criteria, must be developed on a case-by-case basis in consultation with experts.
The development and condition of the garlic must be such as to enable them: • to withstand transportation and handling; and • to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
The garlic must have reached an appropriate degree of development in accordance with criteria proper to the variety and/or commercial type and to the area in which they are grown.
The cloves must be compact.
The garlic shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
Country of origin and, optionally, district where grown, or national, regional or local place name.
Packages or lots must be free of all foreign matter and smell.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce (“garlic” and/or “fresh garlic”, “semi-dry garlic”, “dry garlic”) and the name of the variety.
Name of the produce if the contents are not visible from the outside, such as “garlic”, "fresh garlic", "semi-dry garlic", “dry garlic" or “solo garlic”, where appropriate; Name of the variety or commercial type (optional).
A correction factor of three is used to estimate the high consumers consumption from the average users consumption19. 3000
The TMDI can be refined by taking into account food consumption by appropriate population subgroups.
If the TMDI > ADI, the EDI approach should be followed.
Check the actual levels of use:
A more refined evaluation is therefore needed.
Consideration of the recognition of the equivalence of a NFCS should be based on the application of the following principles:
Countries should recognize that NFCSs, or the relevant parts thereof, of importing and exporting countries, although designed and structured differently, may be capable of achieving the same objectives, and related outcomes or level of protection, with respect to protecting consumer health and ensuring fair practices in the food trade and can therefore be found to be equivalent.
Countries should consider relevant experience, knowledge and confidence and may consider appropriate assessments by other countries or relevant international organizations.
The assessment process should evaluate whether the relevant objectives, and related outcomes or level of protection, of the importing country’s NFCS are achieved and the process should be documented, transparent, evidence-based, outcome-focused, efficient, and be conducted in a cooperative and timely manner.
The importing and exporting countries should document any recognition reached, including how the recognition of equivalence will be implemented and maintained for the trade in food between the countries.
Discussions on scope should identify those areas where there may already be sufficient existing experience, knowledge and confidence versus those areas where additional information exchanges are likely to be required.
As relevant to the scope of the request and to facilitate the exporting country in describing its own systems, the importing country should provide information to describe, with appropriate references, the related elements with the objectives, and relevant outcomes or level of protection, of its NFCS that are to be part of the assessment, for example: regulatory and legislative framework; control and approval requirements (for example establishment, process and product programmes); verification or conformity assessment, and audit programmes; monitoring, surveillance, investigation and food safety incident response programmes; enforcement and compliance programmes; stakeholder engagement, communication and rapid alert systems; system overview monitoring and evaluation programmes, or existing conformity assessment procedures; or any other elements directly relevant to the specific products or programmes under consideration. In describing its own NFCS or the relevant part, the importing country may include reference to relevant standards, guidelines, and/or codes of practice from Codex or other relevant international standard setting bodies.
Taking into consideration the scope of the request for recognition of equivalence and existing experience, knowledge and confidence, additional information exchanges may be required for those matters or elements of the exporting country NFCS which need to be subjected to a more detailed assessment.
The importing country’s assessment process should: focus on whether the exporting country’s NFCS in whole or the relevant part achieves the objectives, and related outcomes or level of protection, of the importing country’s NFCS or the relevant part in accordance with the decision criteria (as opposed to whether specific procedures or functions, undertaken by certain parties in the importing country, are replicated); consider the use of indicators of outcomes – different to the importing country’s – to be used by the exporting country to demonstrate the performance of its NFCS in full or the relevant part to achieve the importing country’s objectives and related outcomes or level of protection; weigh the outcome of the various elements of the exporting country’s NFCS relative to their impact on achieving the objectives and related outcomes or level of protection of the importing country’s NFCS or relevant part; be conducted in a cooperative and timely manner and may include the review of documents, and the use of in-country assessments/audits xvi where justified as necessary to demonstrate the NFCS in full or relevant part; allow for regular discussion/consultations between the countries and the provision of clarifications and/or supplementary information as required; and appropriately protect commercially sensitive and confidential information.
The importing country should document the final assessment conclusions and the associated rationale.
The countries should document their expectations with respect to ongoing communication and cooperation.
The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria for Foods (CXG 21-1997).
In addition to the General Standard for Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the following apply:
The name of the product described under Section 2.2 and complying with provisions of Section 3.2 of the Standard shall be: “Cocoa Cake”.
This standard applies to quick frozen blocks of cohering fish flesh, prepared from fillets or minced fish flesh or a mixture of fillets and minced fish flesh, which are intended for further processing.
Minced fish flesh used in the manufacture of blocks are particles of skeletal muscle which have been separated from and are essentially free from bones, viscera and skin.
Quick frozen blocks shall be prepared from fillets or minced flesh of sound fish which are of a quality fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
Information specified above shall be given either on the container or in accompanying documents, except that the name of the product, lot identification, and the name and address of the manufacturer or packer as well as
Sampling of lots for examination of net weight shall be carried out in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan meeting the established criteria established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with procedures elaborated in Sections 7.3 through 7.7 and Annex A and in accordance with the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CAC/GL 31-1999).
The entire sample unit is examined non-destructively by placing appropriate portions of the thawed sample unit on a 5 mm thick acryl sheet with 45% translucency and candled with a light source giving 1500 lux 30 cm above the sheet.
Internal block temperature should not exceed 7 C (44.6F).
Paper or cloth towels with smooth surface A freezed box should be available at the working place
After sampling from the low temperature store remove, if present, external ice crystals or snow from the package with the frozen product. The water bath shall contain an amount of fresh potable water equal to about 10 times of the declared weight of the product; the temperature should be adjusted on about 15 C to 35C.
Fresh kava products are prepared using peeled rhizomes, peeled basal stems and/or roots.
Vanuatu: Ahouia, Amon, Asiyai, Bir Kar, Bir Sul, Biyaj, Borogoru, Borogu, Gorgor, Gegusug, Gevemea, Gewiswisket, Kelai, Leay, Melmel, Melomelo, Miela, Nagamiwok, Olitao, Palarasul, Palasa, Palimet, Pia, Poivota, Pualiu, Puariki, Sese, Silese, Urukara.
Kava as defined in Sections 2 and 3.1.
Dried kava products shall have a moisture content not exceeding 12 percent.
Kava products shall be: • of known Noble kava varieties, based on meeting the criteria of ‘Absorbance of acetonic extracts’ (less than or equal to 0.9 absorbance units) and with a suitable total kavalactone; • have no intentional adulteration; • free of leaves, bark, and/or stems; • practically free from pests; • practically free from damage caused by pests; • free of visible mould; • free from soil and foreign materials; and • free from foreign odour.
Dried kava products shall be stored in a sealed container and the moisture content shall not exceed 12 percent.
The Principles for Traceability/Product Tracing as a Tool within a Food Inspection and Certification System (CXG 60-2006) shall be adhered to when tracing a product to its origin.
The label of each container of k ava products shall have a clear, conspicuous and easily -readable message, which includes the following points: a) the statement “Steps to prepare the kava beverage” or a similar statement followed by specifically numbered actions to prepare the kava beverage; and b) the first action referred to in Section 7.3(a) should read “Use only potable water to prepare the kava beverage” or a similar statement.
The stalk end of the root should have a clean cut between 1 cm and 2.5 cm in length.
The development and condition of the cassava must be such as to enable it: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
It must be free of defects, with the exception of very slight superficial defects, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package.
Cassava shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44-1995).
Each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and type (sweet) and may be labelled as to the name of the variety.
A statement indicating that cassava should be peeled and fully cooked before being consumed is required.
In the absence of a Codex maximum level for hydrogen cyanide, an acceptable maximum level shall be set on a safety basis by the national legislation of the importing country.
Individual data elements should only be submitted once electronically.
Competent authorities should take appropriate action to prevent the use of fraudulent certificates and should assist, as appropriate, in the timely investigation of such use.
In such instances, the importing country should consider the need to provide flexibility to allow such assurances to be provided by alternative means so long as food safety and fair practices in food trade are assured.
In such cases, multiple consignment certificates should have a fixed duration.
It should be clearly indicated on the certificate or the package that the sample is not intended for retail sale and has no commercial value.
Competent authorities of the importing country should, on request, communicate to the exporting country the requirements for the official attestations and information in certificates and their rationale.
The design and utilization of official certificates should: – simplify and expedite the clearance of the consignment at the point of entry or the point of control; – provide for accurate identification of the consignment being certified and the parties involved in the production and issuance of the certificate; – facilitate the importing country’s assessment of the validity of the certificate; and – minimize the potential for fraud.
Where required, the certificates can be accompanied by official translations; and – be formatted to enable paperless exchange by submission/transmission through a single window system when such a system is used by the importing or exporting countries.
The competent authority of the exporting country is ultimately responsible for any certificate it issues or authorizes to be issued.
be designated and adequately empowered by national/regional mandate in a transparent manner to provide the particular attestations required in an official certificate; have its designation/empowerment recognized as sufficient by governments, alleviating the need for any additional endorsement/re-certification of the certificates they issue; provide information relating to its official empowerment to the importing country upon request; ensure that its procedures allow for the issue of official certificates in a timely manner so as to avoid unnecessary disruptions to trade; have in place an effective system to minimize, to the extent practicable, the fraudulent use of official certificates; and have in place an effective and timely training programme for its certifying officers.
Certifying officers should: be appropriately designated by the certifying body; have no conflict of interest in the commercial aspects of the consignment and be independent from the commercial parties; be fully conversant with the requirements to which they are attesting; have access to a copy of regulations or requirements that are referred to on the certificate or clear information and guidance notes issued by the certifying body or competent authority explaining the criteria that the product must meet before being certified; only attest to matters that are within their own knowledge (or have been separately attested to by another competent party); and only certify to the circumstances that can be verified, directly or by documentation provided, including conformity with production requirements and any other specified requirements between production and date of issue of the certificate.
If such information is requested, adequate means to protect the proprietary nature of such information shall be employed and communicated to the exporter.
41. A decision to implement paperless exchange of official certificates should take into account the availability of the required infrastructure and capabilities of involved countries and include a contingency plan to ensure disruption to trade is minimal in the event of system failure.
37. Paper certificates where used should be issued and presented to the exporter or their agent as the original certificate.
– the certificate contains no deletions other than those required by the text of the certificate; – any alterations of the certified information are initialized or otherwise approved by the certifying body; – for multiple page certificates, it is clear that the pages constitute a single certificate including official translation(s) when appropriate (e.g. each page is numbered with the same unique certificate number so as to indicate it is a particular page in a finite sequence); – the certificate bears the official identifier of the competent authority, signature, name and official position of the certifying officer (the signature may be handwritten or a controlled facsimile signature); – the certificate bears the date, expressed unambiguously, on which the certificate was signed and issued and, where appropriate, the period of time for which the certificate will remain valid; and – no portion of the certificate is left blank in a manner that would allow it to be amended.
The importing and exporting countries will need to agree on the certificate data elements (identifying information and relevant attestations required by the importing country) and messages to be exchanged; facilitate use of available technologies for message exchange to expedite direct communication between officials; ensure the technology that generates, maintains, makes available and validates the issuance of this certificate and prevents any alteration by a non-approved party after issuing; and ensure message authentication.
Additionally, the competent authority should retain the associated consignment under its control, pending the outcome of the investigation.
When countries use paperless exchange of official certificates, the importing country's competent authorities should ensure that the importer/consignee or their representative provides necessary and appropriate details to the importing country's authority or the authority carrying out import controls on behalf of the importing country to allow the consignment identity to be verified against the exchanged certificate.
The original certificate should be cancelled and in case of hard copy, where possible, returned to the issuing authority.
In the situation that the certificate is already under the responsibility of the importing country, the certifying body should notify the importing competent authority by electronic means or in hard copy that the involved original certificate has been made invalid.
If the certificate is found to be fraudulent, every effort should be made by the competent authorities to identify those responsible so that appropriate action can be taken according to national/regional law.
Destruction of the product is one of the measures that can be implemented since destruction is a strong deterrent to future fraudulent activity.
identify the type of packaging of products as defined in Recommendation No. 21 of UN/CEFACT (United Nation Centre for Trade Facilitation and Electronic Business).
The electronic certification system of the importing competent authority receives certificates data from the electronic certification system of the exporting competent authority or certifying body through a central hub.
It should guide competent authorities or certif ying bodies in implementing paperless exchange of official certificates without mandating the use of specific concepts for electronic certification mechanisms to achieve such exchanges.
The digitization at the national level should be covered by the following considerations.
Consideration should also be given to facilitating the exchange of official electronic certificates via a single window.
Exporting countries should consider digitizing their export procedures and protocols and how the data elements of their export certificates20 are processed and how they are organized and relate to one another.
Importing countries should consider digitizing their import procedures and protocols and how the data elements of their import certificates22 are used in their import protocols.
1. The connectivity of their respective systems is reliable for the full scope of official certificate clearance activities (e.g. acceptance, rejection, or replacement) and types of acknowledgement agreed; 2. The integrity, authenticity and security of the exchange meets agreed criteria; 3. Understandings are in place as to how business continuity will be dealt with should anything affect the system to system exchange.
Use of antimicrobial agents in humans, food -producing animals, and plants/crops and transmission of pathogens and resista nce genes between humans, food -producing animals, plants/crops, and the environment are additional factors to consider, through the foodborne AMR risk analysis process described in the Guidelines for Risk Analysis of Foodborne Antimicrobial Resistance (CXG 77-2011).
The choice of which antimicrobial agent to use should take into consideration relevant professional guidelines, where available, results of antimicrobial susceptibility testing of isolates from the production setting, where appropriate, and make adjustments to the antimicrobial agent selection based on clinical outcomes or when foodborne AMR risks become evident.
Medically important antimicrobial agents should only be used for veterinary medical use/phytosanitary use (treatment, control/metaphylaxis or prevention/prophylaxis of disease).
When used for the control of disease/metaphyla xis, medically important antimicrobial agents should only be used on the basis of epidemiological and clinical knowledge and a diagnosis of a specific disease and follow appropriate professional oversight, dose, and duration.
Medically important antimicrobials should be prescribed, administered, or applied only by, or under the direction of, veterinarians, plant/crop health professionals, or other suitably trained persons authorized in accordance with national legislation.
Antimicrobial agents should be used as legally authorized and following all applicable label directions; except where specific legal exemptions apply.
It is the responsibility of the marketing authorization holders to supply required data to register antimicrobial agents including data regarding the safety and efficacy of products as appropriate. Research on the development of new antimicrobials, safe and effective alternatives to the use of antimicrobials, rapid diagnostics and vaccines are encouraged.
The competent authorities should determine appropriate labelling, including the conditions that will minimize the development of foodborne AMR while still maintaining efficacy and safety.
As part of the marketing authorization process, the assessment should include the efficacy with optimal dosages and durations, supported by clinical trials, microbiological data (including antimicrobial susceptibility testing), pharmacokinetic (PK) data, and pharmacodynamic (PD) data.
The competent authorities should assess the potential of medically important antimicrobial agents used along the food chain to select for foodborne AMR taking into account the Guidelines for Risk Analysis of Foodborne Antimicrobial Resistance (CXG 77-2011), the WHO List of Critically Important Antimicrobials for Human Medicine, the OIE List of Antimicrobial Agents of Veterinary Importance, or national lists, where available.
Competent authorities should ensure that quality controls are carried out in accordance with national or international guidance and in compliance with the provisions of good manufacturing practices.
Advertising and promotion of antimicrobial agents should be done in a manner consistent with specific regulatory recommendations for the product.
Competent authorities should prevent illegal medicines and unapproved formulations from entering distribution systems.
In cases where the assessment of data collected from pharmacovigilance and from other post-authorization surveillance including, if available, targeted surveillance of foodborne AMR in veterinary or plant/crop pathogens, suggests that the conditions of use of the given antimicrobial agent marketing authorization should be reviewed, competent authorities shall endeavour to achieve this re-evaluation.
All distributed products should be appropriately labelled.
If the label conditions allow for flexibility, the veterinarian or plant/crop health professional should consider a dosage regimen that is long enough to allow an effective treatment but is short enough to limit the selection of resistance in foodborne and/or commensal microorganisms.
Prevention and reduction of the incidence and severity of plant pests and diseases should be implemented by applying good agricultural practices, such as crop rotation, accurate and timely diagnosis and monitoring of diseases, use of disease resistant crop varieties, exclusionary practices that prevent introduction of pathogens into a crop, careful site selection IPM strategies and biological controls when appropriate and available.
Professional or other organizations should support the development and/or delivery of training on issues related to AMR and the responsible use of antimicrobial agents as described in Section 5.1, as appropriate.
Producers of food animals and plants/crops have the following responsibilities:  to use antimicrobial agents only when necessary, under the supervision of a veterinarian or plant/crop health professional when required, and not as a replacement for good management and farm hygiene practices, or other disease prevention methods;  to implement a health plan in cooperation with the veterinarian, plant/crop health professional, or other suitably trained person authorized in accordance with national legislation that outlines measures to prevent disease;  to use antimicrobial agents in the species, for the uses and at the dos es on the approved labels and in accordance with the prescription, product label instructions or the advice of a veterinarian, plant/crop health professional or other suitably trained person authorized in accordance with national legislation familiar with the food-producing animals or the plant/crop production site;  to isolate sick and dying animals, dispose of dead animals, diseased plants/crops promptly under approved condition by competent authorities;  to comply with the storage conditions of antimicrobi al agents according to the approved product labelling;  to comply with the recommended withdrawal periods or pre-harvest intervals;  to not use out -of-date antimicrobial agents and to dispose of all unused or out -of-date antimicrobial agents in accordance with the provisions on the product labels and national legislation;  to inform the veterinarian, plant/crop health professional, or other suitably trained person authorized in accordance with national legislation in charge of the production unit of recurrent disease problems or suspected lack of efficacy of antimicrobial applications;  to maintain or have their veterinarian, plant/crop health professional, or other suitably trained individual maintain all clinical and laboratory records of microbiological diagn osis and susceptibility testing. These data should be made available to the professional in charge of the administration in order to optimize the use of antimicrobial agents;  to keep adequate records of all antimicrobial agents used, including, for example , the following: o copy of the prescription, order for application or other documentation, when available; o name of the antimicrobial agent/active substance and batch number;
The maximum use level may be based on the application of the procedures of Annex A, the intake assessment of Codex members or upon a request by the CCFA to JECFA for an independent evaluation of national intake assessments.
The use of food additives is justified only when such use has an advantage, does not present an appreciable health risk to consumers, does not mislead the consumer, and serves one or more of the technological functions set out by Codex and the needs set out from (a) through (d) below, and only where these objectives cannot be achieved by other means that are economically and technologically practicable.
All food additives subject to the provisions of this Standard shall be used under conditions of good manufacturing practice, which include the following: a) The quantity of the additive added to food shall be limited to the lowest possible level necessary to accomplish its desired effect; b) The quantity of the additive that becomes a component of food as a result of its use in the manufacturing, processing or packaging of a food and which is not intended to accomplish any physical, or other technical effect in the food itself, is reduced to the extent reasonably possible; and, c) The additive is of appropriate food grade quality and is prepared and handled in the same way as a food ingredient.
In terms of safety, food grade quality is achieved by conformance of additives to their specifications as a whole (not merely with individual criteria) and through their production, storage, transport, and handling in accordance with GMP.
For foods sold as concentrates or powders intended for reconstitution before consumption, the Budget calculation on the food additive use levels should be performed on the ready -to-eat product.
In case of any other reported uses CCFA should request JECFA to re- evaluate the additive in question in light of the new information on uses.
Use Levels Above FL x ADI x 80 should only be accepted for products where calculation of potential intake will show that exceeding the ADI is unlikely (e.g. strong alcoholic beverages).
Additive INS Max Level Notes Rind of ripened cheese Year Adopted
Additive INS Max Level Notes Meat and meat products, including poultry and game Year Adopted 133 BRILLIANT BLUE FCF 100 4, 16, XS88, XS89, XS96, XS97 & XS98 mg/kg 2014 150c CARAMEL III - AMMONIA CARAMEL 3, 4, 16, XS88, XS89, XS96, XS97 & XS98 GMP 2014 150d CARAMEL IV - SULFITE AMMONIA CARAMEL 3, 4, 16, XS88, XS89, XS96, XS97 & XS98 GMP 2014
They are intended for the exclusive or partial feeding of infants with limited or impaired capacity to take, digest, absorb or metabolize ordinary infant formulae or certain nutrients contained therein, or who have other special medically-determined nutrient requirement, whose dietary management cannot be achieved only by modification of the normal diet, by other foods for special dietary uses, or by a combination of the two. 290CARBON DIOXIDE 59GMP2015 410CAROB BEAN GUM 1000 381 & 551mg/kg2023 407CARRAGEENAN 1000 381, 584 & 551mg/kg2023 330CITRIC ACID 381 & 551GMP2023 472cCITRIC AND FATTY ACID ESTERS OF GLYCEROL 9000 380, 381 & 551mg/kg2023 1412DISTARCH PHOSPHATE 5000 150, 284, 292, 381 & 551 mg/kg2023 412GUAR GUM 1000 14, 381 & 551mg/kg2023 414GUM ARABIC (ACACIA GUM) 10 381, 589 & 551mg/kg2023 1440HYDROXYPROPYL STARCH 5000 150, 284, 292, 381 & 551 mg/kg2023 270LACTIC ACID, L-, D- and DL- 83, 381 & 551GMP2023 322(i)LECITHIN 5000 381, 585 & 551mg/kg2023 421MANNITOL 10 381, 589 & 551mg/kg2023 471MONO- AND DI-GLYCERIDES OF FATTY ACIDS 4000 381, 585 & 551mg/kg2023 941NITROGEN 59GMP2015 440PECTINS 2000 14, 381 & 551mg/kg2023 1413PHOSPHATED DISTARCH PHOSPHATE 5000 150, 284, 292, 381 & 551 mg/kg2023 338; 339(i)-(iii); 340(i)-(iii); 341(i)-(iii); 342(i)-(ii); 343(i)-(iii); 450(i)-(iii),(v)-(vii), (ix); 451(i),(ii); 452(i)-(v); 542 PHOSPHATES 450 33, 230, 586, 587 & 551 mg/kg2023 501(i)POTASSIUM CARBONATE 2000 55, 381 & 551mg/kg2023 332(i)POTASSIUM DIHYDROGEN CITRATE 55, 381 & 551GMP2023 501(ii)POTASSIUM HYDROGEN CARBONATE 2000 55, 381 & 551mg/kg2023 525POTASSIUM HYDROXIDE 2000 55, 381 & 551mg/kg2023 551SILICON DIOXIDE, AMORPHOUS 10 381, 589 & 551mg/kg2023 301SODIUM ASCORBATE 75 83, 381, 591 & 551mg/kg2023 500(i)SODIUM CARBONATE 2000 55, 381 & 551mg/kg2023 331(i)SODIUM DIHYDROGEN CITRATE 55, 381 & 551GMP2023 500(ii)SODIUM HYDROGEN CARBONATE 2000 55, 381 & 551mg/kg2023 524SODIUM HYDROXIDE 2000 55, 381 & 551mg/kg2023 1450STARCH SODIUM OCTENYL SUCCINATE 20000 376, 381, 590 & 551 mg/kg2023 307a, b, cTOCOPHEROLS 10 381, 416 & 551mg/kg2023 332(ii)TRIPOTASSIUM CITRATE 55, 381 & 551GMP2023 331(iii)TRISODIUM CITRATE 55, 381 & 551GMP2023 415XANTHAN GUM 1000 381, 588 & 551mg/kg2023
527INS Acidity regulatorFunctional Class:Ammonium hydroxide FoodCatNo FoodCategory MaxLevel Notes Year Adopted 01.2.1.2 Fermented milks (plain), heat-treated after fermentation GMP 2013
Coffee, coffee substitutes, tea, herbal infusions, and other hot cereal and grain beverages, excluding cocoa GMP 2013160
Salt Substitutes GMP 201458 14.1.5 Coffee, coffee substitutes, tea, herbal infusions, and other hot cereal and grain beverages, excluding cocoa GMP 2014160
623INS Flavour enhancerFunctional Class:Calcium di-L-glutamate FoodCatNo FoodCategory MaxLevel Notes Year Adopted 12.1.2 Salt Substitutes GMP 2015
578INS Acidity regulator, Firming agent, SequestrantFunctional Class:Calcium gluconate FoodCatNo FoodCategory MaxLevel Notes Year Adopted 01.2.1.2 Fermented milks (plain), heat-treated after fermentation GMP 2024630
Dried whey and whey products, excluding whey cheeses GMP 2023XS331 02.2.1 Butter GMP 2008 13.1.1 Infant formulae 2000 mg/kg 202355, 381 & 551 13.1.2 Follow-up formulae GMP 2023381 & 551 13.1.3 Formulae for special medical purposes for infants 2000 mg/kg 202355, 381 & 551 13.2 Complementary foods for infants and young children GMP 2023XS73
The relevance, effectiveness, and impacts of risk management decisions and their implementation should be regularly monitored and the decisions and/or their implementation reviewed as necessary.
25. Risk assessment should take into account relevant production, storage and handling practices used throughout the food chain including traditional practices, methods of analysis, sampling and inspection and the prevalence of specific adverse health effects.
19. Where necessary, risk managers should ask risk assessors to evaluate the potential changes in risk resulting from different risk management options.
The outcome of the preliminary risk management activities and the risk assessment should be combined with the evaluation of available risk management options in order to reach a decision on management of the risk.
It should indicate any constraints, uncertainties, assumptions and their impact on the risk analysis, and minority opinions that had been expressed in the course of the risk assessment (see para. 28).
This standard applies to quick frozen raw or partially or fully cooked shrimps or prawns1, peeled or unpeeled.
Quick frozen shrimp is the product obtained from species of the following families: (a) Penaeidae (b) Pandalidae (c) Crangonidae (d) Palaemonidae The pack shall not contain a mixture of genera but may contain a mixture of species of the same genus which have similar sensory properties.
Quick frozen shrimps shall be processed and packaged so as to minimize dehydration and oxidation.
Quick frozen shrimp shall be prepared from sound shrimp which are of a quality fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
The label shall include terms to indicate that the product shall be stored at a temperature of -18oC or colder.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with procedures elaborated in Sections 7.3 through 7.6, Annex A and the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CAC/GL 31 - 1999).
When declared on the label, the count of shrimp shall be determined by counting the numbers of shrimp in the container or a representative sample thereof and dividing the count of shrimp by the actual de-glazed weight to determine the count per unit weight.
The complete thawing of the product is determined by gently squeezing the bag occasionally so as not to damage the texture of the shrimp, until no hard core or ice crystals are left.
Subtract the mass of the sieve; the resultant figure shall be considered to be the net content of the package.
Wrap the product in aluminium foil and place it evenly on a flat cookie sheet or shallow flat pan.
Wrap the product in aluminium foil and place it on a wire rack suspended over boiling water in a covered container.
6. In cases where a final decision regarding the odour/flavour cannot be made in the thawed state, a small portion of the sample unit (100 to 200 g) is prepared without delay for cooking and the odour/flavour confirmed by using one of the cooking methods defined in Section 7.6.
4. The bodies assessing the laboratories referred to above should comply with the general criteria for laboratory accreditation, such as those laid down in the ISO/IEC Guide 58:1993: “Calibration and testing laboratory accreditation systems - General requirements for operation and recognition.”
3. The following quality criteria should be adopted by laboratories involved in the import and export control of foods: - Compliance with the general criteria for testing laboratories laid down in ISO/IEC Guide 17025:1999 “General requirements for the competence of calibration and testing laboratories”; - Participation in appropriate proficiency testing schemes for food analysis which conform to the requirements laid down in “The International Harmonized Protocol for the Proficiency Testing of (Chemical) Analytical Laboratories”, Pure & Appl. Chem. 78 (2006) 145-196; - Whenever available, use methods of analysis which have been validated according to the principles laid down by the Codex Alimentarius Commission; and - Use internal quality control procedures, such as those described in the “Harmonized Guidelines for Internal Quality Control in Analytical Chemistry Laboratories”, Pure & Appl. Chem. 67 (1995) 649-666.
The flavourings used in products covered by this standard should comply with the Guidelines for the Use of Flavourings (CXG 66-2008).2
The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995)3 and the maximum residue limits for pesticides and/or veterinary drugs established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The raw meat used for processing the product shall be obtained from animals that have passed the ante -mortem and post-mortem inspection by a competent authority.
The ingredients shall be of good quality and fit for human consumption and shall conform to respective Codex Alimentarius standards where applicable.
the Guidelines for the Control of Nontyphoidal Salmonella spp. in Beef and Pork Meat (CXG 87-2016)11 and where applicable, should be followed during the drying process.
The labelling of non-retail containers shall be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).13
8.1 Methods of analysis and sampling For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999)14 relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999)14 relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
The following definitions are included to establish a common understanding of the terms used in these guidelines.
For the purpose of these guidelines, the term “hazard” refers to antimicrobial resistant microorganism(s) and/or resistance determinant(s).
Use of internationally recognized, standardized and validated methods and harmonized interpretative criteria, where available, contributes to the comparability of data, facilitates the multisectoral exchange and analysis of data and enhances an integrated approach to data management, analysis and interpretation.
It is important for competent authorities to have access to all available sources of relevant data in their country.
Countries should strive for continuous improvement of monitoring and surveillance activities and progress according to country-specific objectives, priorities, infrastructure, technical capability, resources and new scientific knowledge.
Competent authorities should identify existing data sources and data gaps on foodborne AMR and AMU including data required for risk analysis or results of risk analysis.
AMU: - antimicrobial distribution chains from manufacturing or import to end users including sales/use data providers; - identification of the appropriate points of data collection and stakeholders that can provide the data; - an assessment of the need to establish a legal framework before initiating collection and reporting of antimicrobial sales and use data in food-producing animals and plants/crops may be useful; and - the collection of AMU data may be started on a voluntary basis in agreement with stakeholders who have these data. Consideration should be given to additional information provided in the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code and Aquatic Animal Health Code.
Once a sampling design is established, consistency in sample types and methodology is desirable to achieve long-term, comparability and accurate interpretation of results, especially when new methodologies are added and the programme is adjusted.
The selection of target microorganisms should consider the presence of high priority AMR genes or mobile genetic elements and horizontal gene transfer in a given bacterial population.
Methods that are standardized and validated by nationally or internationally recognized organizations should be used where available.
Quantitative results are necessary for quantitative microbiological risk assessment.
Attempts should be made to use the same antimicrobial class representatives across sample sources, geographic regions, and over time.
The concentration range of each antimicrobial agent should also cover the full range of allowable results for the quality control strain(s) used for each antimicrobial agent.
Sample sources, analytical methods, AST methods, and interpretive criteria should be clearly described, and differences transparently explained to show where data may not be directly comparable.
For the monitoring and surveillance of AMU, including sources of data and the collection and reporting of AMU data in food-producing animals, the OIE’s Terrestrial Animal Health Code and Aquatic Animal Health Code should be considered.
g. Technical units of measurement for reporting antimicrobial sales or use.
Statistical analysis should be used to ensure proper interpretation of results.
A description of the sampling design(s) and sampling plan(s), such as stratification and randomization procedures, for food-producing animals, plants/crops, food production environment or food categories, should be recorded to link data within and across monitoring and surveillance components.
Transparent and open communication for the reporting of the results between the competent authorities and the different stakeholders including the public should be considered.
