Coordination of these activities at the national or regional level is recommended and may support the implementation of targeted actions by the stakeholders involved and enable clear and transparent communications.
National Action Plans should include recommendations to relevant professional organisations to develop evidence-based species or sector-specific antimicrobial use guidelines.
Outcome-based measurables: handling responses; morbidity rate; mortality rate; behaviour; reproductive efficiency; changes in weight and body condition; changes in milk yield.
Reference to emergency plans can also be found in point 7 of Article 7.11.6. and point 1 c) of Article 7.11.7.
Distributors should also be involved in training programmes on the responsible and prudent use of veterinary medicinal products containing antimicrobial agents, as defined in point 13 of Article 6.10.3.
6) Feed manufacturers should participate in training programmes as defined in point 13 of Article 6.10.3.
2) Breeders, owners and keepers of food-producing animals should: a) draw up a health plan with the attending veterinarian that outlines preventive and control measures; b) implement on-farm biosecurity and take appropriate hygiene precautions; c) isolate sick animals, when appropriate, to avoid the transfer of pathogenic agents; d) dispose of dead or dying animals promptly under conditions approved by the Competent Authorities; e) use veterinary medicinal products containing antimicrobial agents only on the prescription and under the supervision of a veterinarian, veterinary paraprofessional or other suitably trained person in accordance with the national legislation;
Animal breeders, owners and keepers, with the assistance and guidance of a veterinarian, are responsible for the health and welfare of their animals and should:
1) implement the wellness plans and preventative health plans recommended by their veterinarian; 2) strictly follow their veterinarian's recommendations and ensure that if any, the administration of veterinary medicinal products containing antimicrobial agents follows the veterinary prescription; 3) avoid administering over the counter human and veterinary antimicrobial agents to their animals; 4) not administer remaining or expired human and veterinary antimicrobial agents to their animals; 5) inform their veterinarian or veterinary paraprofessional of the administration of any additional medicinal products than those prescribed by the veterinarian during the consultation; 6) inform their veterinarian of any observed lack of effectiveness or adverse effect; 7) ensure that only antimicrobial agents from authorised sources are administered in accordance with national legislation.
Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require: for all non-human primates
Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require for shipments which originate from the wild or other sources where they were not subjected to permanent veterinary supervision:
Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require: for marmosets and tamarins from premises under veterinary supervision
Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require: for prosimians, New World monkeys, Old World monkeys, gibbons and great apes from premises under veterinary supervision
For the effective control of Salmonella: 1) when appropriate, feed and feed ingredients should be produced, handled, stored, transported and distributed according to Good Manufacturing Practices, considering Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points (HACCP) principles and recommendations in accordance with Chapter 6.4.; 2) feed and feed ingredients should be transported, stored and fed in a manner that minimises contamination by faecal waste and, where practicable, minimises access by domestic animals, birds, rodents and wildlife.
7) Animals should have access to sufficient feed and water, suited to the animals' age and needs, to maintain normal health and productivity and to prevent prolonged hunger, thirst, malnutrition or dehydration.
4) WOAH should utilise its informal procedure for dispute mediation to identify a mutually agreed solution which will address the animal health and welfare issues in a timely manner.
The management of animals at post-discharge facilities is outside the scope of this chapter.
In this situation, the priorities should be: a) The Competent Authority of the importing country should provide urgently in writing the reasons for the refusal.
7) All individuals, including veterinarians, involved in transporting animals and the associated handling procedures should receive appropriate training and be competent to meet their responsibilities. 8) The receiving Competent Authority should report back to the sending Competent Authority on significant animal welfare problems which occurred during the journey.
2) The assessment of the competence of animal handlers should at a minimum address knowledge, and ability to apply that knowledge, in the following areas: a) planning a journey, including appropriate space allowance, and feed, water and ventilation requirements; b) responsibilities for animals during the journey, including loading and unloading; c) sources of advice and assistance; d) animal behaviour, general signs of disease, and indicators of poor animal welfare such as stress, pain and fatigue, and their alleviation; e) assessment of fitness to travel; if fitness to travel is in doubt, the animal should be examined by a veterinarian; f) relevant authorities and applicable transport regulations, and associated documentation requirements; g) general disease prevention procedures, including cleaning and disinfection; h) appropriate methods of animal handling during transport and associated activities such as assembling, loading and unloading; i) methods of inspecting animals, managing situations frequently encountered during transport such as adverse weather conditions, and dealing with emergencies, including humane killing;
2) The documentation accompanying the consignment should include:
3) In the event that a Competent Authority requires the animals to remain on the vehicle, the priorities should be: a) to allow provisioning of the vehicle with water and feed as necessary; b) to provide urgently in writing the reasons for the refusal; c) to provide urgent access to an independent veterinarian(s) to assess the health status of the animals, and the necessary facilities and approvals to expedite the required diagnostic testing in the event of a refusal for animal health reasons; d) to provide access to allow continued assessment of the health and other aspects of the welfare of the animals, and the necessary actions to deal with any animal issues which arise. 4) WOAH should utilise its informal procedure for dispute mediation to identify a mutually agreed solution which will address animal health and any other welfare issues in a timely manner.
– protect the animals from adverse weather; – ensure animals stand on a suitable floor to prevent slipping or injury; – have adequate strength to ensure the safety of the animals and to prevent the animals from escaping; – ensure doors can be opened and closed easily, but be secured so that they cannot be opened accidentally; – be free of any nails, bolts and other protrusions or sharp edges that could cause injuries; – be designed to minimise the risk of any opening or space entrapping any portion of the animals body; – if reusable, crates should be constructed of impermeable material that is easily cleaned and disinfected; – ensure faeces and urine cannot escape from the crate; this requires a minimum upturn of 20 cm but it should not block any ventilation openings; – if designated for stacking be stable, not block any ventilation space and prevent urine and faeces from leaking into the containers below when stacked; – allow for a facility for provision of water and possibly food during transportation of longer than sixhours duration.
Crates used to transport horses should: be strong enough to prevent unruly horses from breaking or escaping from the container under any circumstances; in the case of multi-horse containers, have partitions of sufficient strength and size to separate the horses and to support each horse's weight; adjust to allow mare and foal to travel together; provide the same percentage of open space for ventilation as required in point1 above, divided between the two side walls; however, if the access doors are constructed in such a manner that they may be left open during the flight, the door space may be included in the ventilation space; be constructed to minimise noise; allow access to the head during the flight; have the front end notched and padded to accept the neck of the animal; have a secure point for attaching restraining devices; have a front and rear barrier that will restrict the movement of the horse and will ensure that liquids are deflected into the container; ensure horses cannot bite other animals; be constructed to resist kicking; have no fittings or projections in the area likely to be kicked, metal plates should be covered with a protective material; ramps shall be non-skid in nature, have foot battens, and be of a maximum slope of 25 degrees when the container is on a standard 50 cm (20 in.) dolly; not have a step up or down of more than 25 cm (10 in.).
A residual oxygen concentration of less than 2% should be achieved and maintained and birds should be held in this atmosphere until death is confirmed.
Special care should be taken with regard to pregnant animals, semen and embryos/ova.
In all cases, when tranquilizers are used, a note should be attached to the container stating the weight of the individual animal, the generic name of the drug used, the dose, the method and time of administration.
This will also contribute to food safety and product quality, and consequently to the improvement of economic returns.
This chapter should be read in conjunction with the guiding principles for animal welfare provided in Chapter 7.1. and Chapter 7.14. and with relevant provisions of Chapters 6.2. and 6.3.
Hazards to animal welfare can be minimised by appropriate design of premises and choice of equipment, and through good management, training and competency of personnel.
It is recommended that target values or thresholds for animal-based measures be based on current scientific evidence and appropriate national, sectorial or regional standards.
The slaughterhouse/abattoir operator is responsible for the development and implementation of an operating plan that should consider the following: – training and competency of personnel; – design of premises and choice of equipment; – standard operating procedure; – recording, reporting adverse incidents, and taking corrective actions; – throughput (number of animals slaughtered per hour); – maintenance and cleaning procedures of equipment and premises; – emergency plans.
Personnel who have a role to play in implementing the plans should be well trained on the tasks they have to perform.
Therefore, animals should be transported to the slaughterhouse/abattoir in a manner that minimises adverse animal health and welfare, and in accordance with Chapters 7.2. and 7.3.
However, this should not apply when restraining is likely to cause additional distress or pain as well as excessive and unpredictable movements (e.g. animals that cannot move normally due to injuries or sickness, wild animals or horses).
In cases where the fetus is removed before 30 minutes has elapsed euthanasia should be carried out immediately.
Principles described below should be described in the emergency plan and may also apply to animals that are not suitable for slaughter for commercial reasons, even if they do not present signs of distress, pain or suffering.
Therefore, animals should be transported to the slaughterhouse/abattoir in a manner that minimises adverse animal health and welfare outcomes, and in accordance with Chapters 7.2. and 7.3.
Animals should be protected from sudden and excessive noise (e.g. ventilation fans, alarms, or other indoor or outdoor equipment).
Controlled atmosphere stunning includes exposure to carbon dioxide, inert gases, mixtures of carbon dioxide with inert gases or low atmosphere pressure (LAPS).
iii) Birds should be monitored continuously until death to ensure the absence of brain stem reflexes.
It is important to manage dog populations without compromising animal welfare, in accordance with Chapter 7.1.
It may also be necessary to improve availability and accessibility of resources supporting responsible ownership, such as veterinary care, identification and registration services and measures for control of zoonotic diseases.
– Dog population movements from owned to unowned dogs or from confined to free-roaming dogs (based on investigations and monitoring).
A combination of the following measures should be used for a successful DPM programme: – registration and identification of dogs; – regulation of commercial dog breeding and sale; – control of national and international (export and import) dog movements; – promoting responsible dog ownership; – reproductive control; – 'Catch, Neuter, Vaccinate and Return'; – reuniting and adoption; – access to veterinary care; – environmental controls; – education on safe dog-human interaction. These recommendations for DPM measures are described in detail in Articles 7.7.14. to 7.7.24. and should be implemented in accordance with the national context and local circumstances.
Owners need to be informed and, under conditions to be defined by Competent Authorities, able to access identification services and the registration system both initially to enter each dog and to update information when required.
If euthanasia of these unwanted animals is the only option, the procedure should be conducted in accordance with Article 7.7.27.
Competent Authorities should seek advice from dog behaviour experts in developing dog safety education programmes.
Handlers should use minimum restraint to provide the dog with opportunities to exert choice and control, so that they cope better with the handling.
Subject to safeguarding confidential information, such summaries may be made publicly available; c) the experimental design, including justification for choice of species, source and number of animals, including any proposed reuse; d) the experimental procedures; e) methods of handling and restraint and consideration of refinements such as animal training and operant conditioning;
Senior management, given their overarching responsibility for the animal care and use programme, should be knowledgeable about issues related to the competence of staff.
In exceptional circumstances, where species unfamiliar to the veterinarian are involved, a suitably qualified non-veterinary expert may provide advice.
Animals to be used for research should be of high quality to ensure the validity of the data.
For many species (e.g. rodents), environmental conditions should be controllable to minimise physiological changes which may be potentially confounding scientific variables and of welfare concern.
A contingency plan which addresses any possible delays should be in place and the name of an emergency contact person should be prominently displayed on the container.
Outcome-based measurables: injury rate, behaviour, feather condition, mortality.
This chapter should be read in conjunction with Chapters 7.2., 7.3. and 7.4. on the welfare of broilers during transport to the slaughterhouse/abattoir.
All people responsible for the broilers should have received appropriate training or be able to demonstrate that they are competent to carry out their responsibilities and should have sufficient knowledge of broiler behaviour, handling techniques, emergency killing procedures, biosecurity, general signs of diseases, and indicators of poor animal welfare and procedures for their alleviation.
Humane killing procedures should be part of the emergency plan.
Broiler producers should have a maintenance programme in place for all equipment the failure of which can jeopardise broiler welfare.
All organisations with defined responsibilities as outlined below should have personnel with the requisite knowledge and skill to perform their duties.
The use of these indicators and the appropriate thresholds should be adapted to the different situations where working equids are used.
Resting space should be dry, clean and large enough for the equid to lie down, get up and turn around easily.
This does not exclude other criteria (or measurables) being used where or when appropriate.
All pigs should receive adequate quantity and quality of feed and nutrients each day to enable each pig to: – maintain good health; – meet its physiological requirements; and – meet its requirements for foraging and feeding behaviour.
4) Vulva biting may be reduced by minimising competition for resources, including feed and water, and reducing group size.
Such plans may include evacuation procedures, identifying high ground, maintaining emergency feed and water stores, destocking and humane killing when necessary.
As far as recommendations for effective physical restraint in relation to animal welfare are concerned, the method of restraint should: – avoid injuries due to excessive pressure applied by equipment or personnel; – be applied rapidly to avoid excessive or prolonged struggling of the reptile; – exclude features that may cause pain or injury; – not hoist or suspend animals by the feet, legs, tail or head; – not restrain only one area of the body (e.g. head or neck) leaving the rest able to move excessively; – ensure animals can breathe freely through the nostrils where the mouth is restrained; – adequately support the animal's body when moving it;
Recommendations for the effective use of a penetrative captive bolt in relation to animal welfare are: – reptiles should be effectively restrained; – the device should be correctly positioned on the head to result in the penetration of the brain by the bolt; – the bolt should be of appropriate mass, length, diameter and shape; – cartridge or compressed air specifications should be determined to deliver the correct bolt velocity; – equipment and charge should be selected to suit the species, size and type of the reptile; – equipment should be cleaned, maintained and stored, following manufacturer's recommendations. Animal-based criteria (or measurables): immediate onset of unconsciousness or death as described in Article 7.14.6.
Recommendations for an effective use of non-penetrative captive bolt in relation to animal welfare are: – reptiles should be effectively restrained; – the device should be correctly positioned on the head to allow optimum transfer of energy to the brain; – the bolt should be of mass, diameter and shape appropriate to the anatomy of the cranium and brain; – the equipment should be appropriately selected and maintained and adjusted for the species, size and type of the reptile; – cartridge or compressed air specifications should be determined to deliver the correct bolt velocity; – equipment and charge should be selected to suit the species, size and type of the reptile; – equipment should be cleaned, maintained and stored, following manufacturer's recommendations. Animal-based criteria (or measurables): immediate onset of unconsciousness or death as described in Article 7.14.6.
The product shall be presented in one of the following styles: (a) Raw pistachio (b) Roasted pistachio
Containers shall be as full as practicable without impairment of quality and shall be consistent with a proper declaration of contents for the product.
- shall be free from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; - shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and - shall not contain any substance originating from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) the following specific provisions apply:
The name of the product as declared on the label shall be "unshelled pistachio", "unshelled pistachio nuts" or "inshell pistachio nuts".
These products shall be designated with a qualifying statement which describes the true nature in such a way that it does not misled the consumer and that it does not lead to confusion with products covered by this Standard.
The heat treatment to which the product has been subjected and the type of cure and packaging shall be sufficient to ensure that the product presents no public health hazard and remains wholesome under the conditions of storage, transport and sale.
Section 4.1 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995), referring to the conditions applying to carry-over of food additives from ingredients and raw materials into foods, shall apply.
The ingredients from which the product is prepared shall be of a quality suitable for human consumption and free from objectionable odours and flavours.
The meat shall be uniformly and thoroughly cured and the product shall be capable of being sliced.
The products covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides and/or veterinary drugs established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), shall apply:
A declaration that accurately describes the method of preparation, processing or presentation shall be given so as to appear simultaneously visible with the name of the product if its omission would mislead the consumer.
For products which are not shelf-stable and which are packaged in containers not sold directly to the consumer or for catering purposes, adequate storage and distribution instructions shall be declared.
For products in which the amount of added gelatine is not known, 0.5% protein should be deducted from the percentage protein expressed on a fat-free basis.
The explanatory notes are intended:  to explain the principles and their use in sampling and testing procedures; and  to help governments and other interested parties to understand the principles and to establish and use sampling and testing procedures to assess whether foods in international trade comply with specifications.
In the event of a rejection of a lot or consignment, all relevant information should be shared between governments using mutually agreed upon format and language(s).
If the standard deviation is treated as “known”, the assumed value should be scientifically based and accepted by both parties;
Sampling and testing of food in trade to assess whether the food meets specifications involves three components, and all three of these should be considered when an assessment procedure is selected: - Selection of samples from a lot or consignment as per the sampling plan; - Examination or analysis of these samples to produce test results (sample preparation and test method(s)); - Criteria upon which to base a decision using the results.
These probabilities should be evaluated and controlled, preferably using methodology described in internationally recognized standards.
The sampling and testing procedures selected should be: • Scientifically based, taking into account the existing Codex standards; • Appropriate to the commodity and lot or consignment to be sampled and tested; • Fit for intended purposes and applied consistently. The selection of sampling and testing procedures should take into account: • Practical matters such as cost and timeliness of the assessment and access to lots or consignments, provided that the probability of accepting a non-compliant lot or consignment is not too high; • Variation within a lot or consignment.
The selection of the product assessment procedure should take into account analytical measurement uncertainty and its implications.
In all cases the key consideration during uncertainty estimation is the evaluation of all significant sources of uncertainty.
In terms of using a testing procedure, testing laboratories should adhere to the Guidelines for the Assessment of the Competence of Testing Laboratories Involved in the Import and Export Control of Food (CAC/GL 27-1997) and to Food Control Laboratory Management: Recommendations (CAC/GL 28 -1995).
Sampling and testing procedures should be reviewed periodically to ensure they take into account new science and information.
The following quality assurance criteria should be adopted by laboratories involved in the import and export control of foods: - Compliance with the general criteria for testing laboratories laid down in ISO/IEC 17025 “General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories”; - Participation in appropriate proficiency testing schemes for food analysis which conform to the requirements laid down in “The International Harmonized Protocol for the Proficiency Testing of (Chemical) Analytical Laboratories”, Pure & Appl. Chem. 78 (2006) 145-196; - Whenever available, use methods of analysis which have been validated according to the principles laid down by the Codex Alimentarius Commission; - Use of internal quality control procedures, such as those described in the Harmonized Guidelines for Internal Quality Control in Analytical Chemistry Laboratories Pure & Appl. Chem. 67 (1995) 649-666.
It is recommended that during storage, transportation, distribution and retail, the product be handled in accordance with the provisions in the Code of Practice for the Processing and Handling of Quick Frozen Foods (CXC 8-1976).1
The total soluble solids content of the liquid extracted from the thawed, comminuted sample shall be not more than 35 percent m/m nor less than 18 percent m/m, expressed as sucrose, as determined by refractometer at 20 C.
The total soluble solids content of the liquid extracted from the thawed, comminuted sample shall be not more than 25 percent nor less than 15 percent m/m, expressed as sucrose, as determined by refractometer at 20 C.
Any sample unit that falls outside the limits for the soluble solids range specified in Section 3.2.1 and Section 3.2.2 shall be regarded as a "defective", provided it does not exceed the limits of the range by more than 5 percent m/m soluble solids.
Quick-frozen bilberries shall be: (a) of similar varietal characteristics; (b) of good colour; (c) free from foreign flavour and odour; (d) clean, sound and practically free from mould and other harmless foreign matter; and with respect to visual or other defects subject to a tolerance, shall be: (e) practically free from sand and grit; (f) when presented as free-flowing, practically free from berries adhering one to another and which cannot be easily separated by hand without damage when in the frozen state; (g) practically free from extraneous vegetable matter (EVM); (h) reasonably free from cap stems (stalks); (i) practically free from green berries; (j) practically free from dissimilar varieties of edible berries other than bilberries; (k) reasonably free from blemished berries; and (l) reasonably free from undeveloped or mummified berries.
Mineral impurities such as sand, grit and silt shall be not more than 0.05 percent m/m on the whole product (berries and packing medium, if any).
The sample size for evaluating visual defects, including application of tolerances, is 300 grammes of drained berries (see relevant Codex texts on methods of analysis and sampling).
To be acceptable, the sample unit shall not exceed the "total allowable points" for the respective categories, including total, in Table 1.
Any sample unit taken in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5, (see relevant Codex texts on methods of analysis and sampling) shall be regarded as a "defective" for the respective characteristics, as follows: (a) that exceeds the tolerance for mineral impurities in Section 3.3.2; (b) that exceeds the tolerance for "free-flowing" in Section 3.3.3; (c) that exceeds the total allowable points for visual defects in any one or more of the categories in Table 1 (Section 3.3.6): or that exceeds the tolerance for disintegrated, badly crushed or smashed in Table 1 (Section 3.3.6).
In applying the acceptance procedure each "defective" (as defined in Section 3.3.7 subparagraphs [a] or [b] or [c]) is treated individually for the respective characteristics.
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the following specific provisions apply:
Packaging used for quick-frozen bilberries shall: (a) protect the organoleptic and other quality characteristics of the product; (b) protect the product against microbiological and other contamination; (c) protect the product from dehydration and, where appropriate, leakage as far as technologically practicable; and (d) not pass on to the product any odour, taste, colour or other foreign characteristics.
The packages shall bear clear directions for keeping from the time they are purchased from the retailer to the time of their use, as well as directions for thawing.
In the case of quick-frozen bilberries in bulk, the information required above shall either be placed on the container or be given in accompanying documents, except that the name of the food accompanied by the words "quick -frozen" (the term "frozen" may be used in accordance with Section 6.1.3 of this standard) and the name and address of the manufacturer or packer must appear on the container.
Quick frozen squid and parts of squid shall be processed and packaged so as to minimize dehydration and oxidation.
Quick frozen squid shall be prepared from sound squid which are of a quality fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
Products shall be examined by the methods given in Section 7.
(i) shall be free from microorganisms or substances originating from microorganisms in amounts which may present a hazard to health in accordance with standards established by the CAC; and (ii) shall not contain any other substance in amounts which may present a hazard to health in accordance with standards established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1-1985) the following specific provisions apply:
Where the food has been glazed, the declaration of net contents of the food shall be exclusive of the glaze.
The label shall include terms to indicate that the product shall be stored at a temperature of -186C or colder.
shall be "squid", or another name according to the law, custom or practice in the country in which the product is to be distributed.
There shall appear on the label reference to the presentation, in close proximity to the name of the food in such additional words or phrases that will avoid misleading or confusing the consumer.
In addition, the labelling shall show the term "frozen", or "quick frozen" whichever is customarily used in the country in which the product is distributed, to describe a product subjected to the freezing process described in sub-section 2.2.
The label shall state that the product should be maintained under conditions that will maintain the quality during transportation, storage and distribution.
If the product has been glazed with sea-water, a statement to this effect shall be made.
The sample unit shall be considered defective when it exhibit any of the properties defined below.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with procedures elaborated in Sections 7.3 through 7.5, Annex A and the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CAC/GL 31 - 1999).
The exact times and conditions of cooking for the product should be determined by prior experimentation.
The net weight (exclusive of packaging material) of each sample unit representing a lot shall be determined in the frozen state.
Wrap the product in aluminum foil and place it evenly on a flat cookie sheet or shallow flat pan.
Cook according to equipment instructions.
Wrap the product in aluminum foil and place it on a wire rack suspended over boiling water in a covered container.
In cases where a final decision on odour and texture can not be made in the thawed uncooked state, a portion of the sample unit is sectioned off and the odour, flavour and texture confirmed without delay by using one of the cooking methods defined in Section 7.5.
These guidelines will provide competent authorities, food business operators (FBOs) and consumers with the necessary knowledge to strengthen food hygienic capacities in these markets to assure food safety in the framework of a One Health approach.
The guidelines provide FBOs, consumers, market authorities and other stakeholders with advice on food hygiene – including food handling, personnel health, training and education, environment and hygiene relevant to ensuring food safety.
These guidelines provide guidance on food safety regulation and hygienic handling activities to all stakeholders relevant to traditional markets for food where raw, prepared and/or ready-to-eat foods are sold.
This guideline should be used in conjunction with relevant Codex texts, including but not limited to the General principles of food hygiene (CXC 1-1969).
Competent authorities should: • regulate and promote food safety controls and the use of the guidelines established in this document in addition to CXC 1-1969.1 • put in place and implement surveillance systems to detect and support foodborne illness outbreak investigations and management; and • implement and enforce regulatory measures including, but not limited to, the issuance of permits and licences, and where applicable, apply sanctions.
Where applicable, market authorities should be empowered to assist the competent authorities with licensing and registration through a mutually agreed mechanism to oversee and promote food safety by FBOs.
When planning market infrastructure, high-risk areas, such as where live animals, raw meat, poultry and fish are handled, should be physically separated from incompatible activities to prevent cross-contamination of foods.
The frequency and the type of training should be agreed upon by stakeholders considering the market requirements, kind of food products offered, FBO practices, and other aspects as appropriate.
In line with the One Health approach, handlers of wild animals and meat of wildlife should be made aware of the hazards associated with regional trade thereof, especially in order to prevent known and emerging zoonoses.
Training programmes should take into consideration the knowledge and skills levels of the food handlers being trained.
FBO associations should encourage continuous capacity building and self -regulation for improved adherence to food safety requirements.
However, animals such as guide dogs may be allowed but precautions should be taken to avoid food contamination; and immediately taking all practicable measures to get rid of the identified pest or harbourage sites and to prevent re-infestation.
developing, implementing, and verifying processes that provide food that is safe and suitable for its intended use; providing an efficient record-keeping system, as appropriate to support food safety; ensuring personnel are competent as appropriate to their job activities; ensuring there is a simple one-step forward, one-step back traceability system in the food chain where applicable; implementing a complaint management system for consumers; building a positive food safety culture by demonstrating their commitment to providing safe and suitable food and encouraging appropriate food safety practices; ensuring that consumers have clear and easy -to-understand information on use and to enable them to identify the presence of food hazards including allergens, protect their food from contamination, and prevent the growth/survival of foodborne pathogens during storage, handling, and preparation of food hygienically;
The traditional markets for food should be located away from: environmentally polluted areas and industrial activities that are reasonably likely to contaminate food; areas prone to flooding; areas prone to infestations of pests; and areas where waste, either solid or liquid, cannot be removed effectively.
The design and layout of the traditional market for food should: be reviewed and approved beforehand by the competent authority and/or market authority, FBO associations, where necessary; provide adequate space for food vendor stalls, carts, display cases, food preparation, handling, storing, serving, and selling areas; allow for the flow of materials and goods, in and out of the markets, in a manner which will prevent food contamination; have graded and compacted pathways such that they allow adequate drainage of expected levels of rainfall; have stalls with access to an inlet and outlet of a drainage system or other suitable means of hygienic disposal of wastewater; allow for market segmentation/demarcation to separate areas for sale of high-risk foods from areas allocated to low-risk foods; allow for the proper placement of client and vendor facilities, such as toilets, handwashing basins, and eating facilities in a manner that prevents food contamination; provide suitable, sufficient, and properly placed areas for solid waste collection and storage, crockery/cutlery and appliance cleaning, washing, and disinfecting; be adequately ventilated to remove hazardous gases and offensive odours such as cooking fuel fumes and provide a continuous and sufficient supply of fresh air; provide adequate power supply to operate appliances, processing and cooling equipment, and other implements used in the preparation, handling, storage, serving, and selling of food; have provision for an ample supply of potable water, under adequate pressure and of suitable temperature, with adequate facilities for its storage, distribution, and protection against contamination; be designed in such a way that it allows for adequate lighting; provide space in and around the food stalls which should be free of unnecessarily stored goods or items to permit easy access for cleaning; and provide adequate space for loading/offloading.
Traditional markets for food should comply with any other requirements by the competent authority.
Frequency of calibration, responsible person, monitoring and verification procedures, appropriate corrective actions, and record-keeping should be specified.
Traditional markets for food should ensure a sufficient supply of potable water.
The system should be large enough to carry peak loads and be provided with traps to prevent solid waste material from being discharged into the drain/sewer.
 waste equipment and waste storage areas are cleaned and disinfected as and/or when required by the competent authority;  only appropriate disinfecting agents are used; and  routine inspection of solid waste disposal areas for the presence or harbourage of pests, taking any practical measures to eliminate and further prevent any infestation by either market and/or competent authorities or FBO associations.
Every traditional market for food should have sufficient and easily accessible toilets and other sanitary facilities which should be kept clean and operational.
 cold chain transportation of foods should be implemented where necessary; and  only permitted food additives are to be used and the amount added should be as per the relevant national, regional or international specifications such as the General standard for food additives (CXS 192-1995).
Every cutting surface used in the preparation of food should be free from cracks and crevices and should be easy to clean and disinfect.
Utensils used for tasting food should be washed immediately after each use or if disposable, discarded after use.
A food warmer should be used to maintain continuous holding temperatures and should not be used for re-heating purposes.
Cooked chilled/frozen unsold foods should be reheated until piping hot before serving or consumption.
All equipment in contact with food used for transportation should be of food-grade material.
All non-perishable food should be stored in a clean, protected, and closed container/cupboard to prevent cross-contamination by pests.
All consumers in the traditional markets for food should adhere to general hygienic practices which include but are not limited to: prevention of contamination of food; washing or disinfecting hands before touching food; avoidance of unnecessary contact with ready-to-eat food; avoidance of spitting, sneezing, coughing, littering, smoking, or use of tobacco in areas where there is unprotected food or surfaces likely to contact food; proper disposal of leftovers in waste receptacles and/or containers; report to the market authorities any unhygienic behaviour of any food handler if noted; and report and seek medical attention whenever foodborne illness -related symptoms such as diarrhoea, vomiting and stomach pain is experienced.
Competent authority should provide adequate communication and guidance to consumers in order to raise consumer awareness.
All consumers should: dispose waste appropriately into the designated waste disposal systems and facilities; and comply with any other relevant authority requirements related to liquid and solid waste disposal.
This Standard should be read in conjunction with the Standard for Fermented Milks (CXS 243-2003).
Yoghurt should conform to the Standard for Fermented Milks. Potable water for dilution of yoghurt or milk, and/or for the use in reconstitution or recombination (if milk is prepared by reconstitution or recombination).
The microbiological criteria in the product are valid up to the “date of minimum durability ” under the storage conditions specified in the labelling.
The milk used in the manufacture of the products covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides and veterinary drugs established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and A pplication of Microbiological Criteria related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
Doogh (after fermentation) shall be stored under appropriate conditions e.g. refrigerated.
The name of the food shall be “Doogh”.
For carbonated doogh, the terms “Fermenting” or “Injecting” shall be applied before the word “Carbonated” in product designation to represent the source of carbonation.
For checking the compliance with this Standard, the methods of analysis and sampling for fermented milks as contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999) relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
Any labelling should be in accordance to the Guidelines for Use of Nutrition and Health Claims (CXG 23-1997).
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999) 11 relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
The flavourings used in products covered by this standard should comply with the Guidelines for the Use of Flavourings (CXG 66-2008).6
The products covered by this Standard shall comply with the Maximum Levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995).
The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).9
The product shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).
Fats of animal origin must be produced from animals in good health at the time of slaughter and be fit for human consumption.
The products covered by the provisions of this standard shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for these commodities.
The designation "cold pressed fat" or "cold pressed oil" may only be used for individual fats or oils conforming to the definition in Section 2.3 of this standard.
Control measures must be taken at all steps of processing to ensure that food safety and suitability are not compromised by hazards or other contaminants during operations.
All bottled/packaged drinking waters other than natural mineral water are covered by this Code.
In those areas of the processing establishment where containers are exposed to the external environment (i.e., on the loading dock), especially prior to filling and sealing, specific preventive measures should be incorporated into the facility's design to avoid contamination of the containers used for bottled water.
The requirements in the Recommended International Code of Practice – General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969, Rev. 3-1997) cover these topics.
Dust, dirt, microorganisms in the air, and condensation should be controlled and monitored.
Surface waters may be highly variable, so supplies should be tested frequently.
Determine if this is the case; if not, treat as carefully as reusable containers.
New containers should be inspected and, if necessary, cleaned and disinfected.
Closures are generally supplied in a ready to use state and should be tamper resistant; they are not reusable.
Any underground supply from which water is collected, should be approved by an official authority having jurisdiction or by a third party with expertise for approving such underground supplies.
Stringency in determining which surface waters are suitable for bottling should be the rule, even when treatment(s) is foreseen.
Where sampling points are necessary, they should be designed and operated to prevent any contamination of the water.
Wellheads and spring outflows should be protected by a suitable structure to prevent entry by unauthorized individuals, pests, dust and other sources of contamination such as extraneous matter, drainage, floodwaters, and infiltration water.
Extraction devices such as those used for bore holes should be constructed and maintained in a manner that avoids contamination of the water and minimizes hazards to human health.
Where or when they are necessary, bulk containers and conveyances such as tanks, pipings and tanker trucks should be designed and constructed so that they:  do not contaminate the water intended for bottling;  can be effectively cleaned and disinfected;  provide effective protection from contamination, including dust and fumes; and  allow any situation that arises to be checked easily.
Prior to using a water resource for bottling purposes, its chemical composition and microbiological safety should be established over an appropriate period to allow for variations.
The requirements in the Recommended International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969, Rev. 3-1997) cover these topics.
Any presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that it meets all requirements of this standard; and is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consume r.
All other ingredients used shall be of food grade quality and conform to all applicable Codex standards.
Fish sauce shall be prepared from sound and wholesome fish or parts of fish in a condition fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
Salt used shall be of food grade quality and conform to the Standard for Food Grade Salt (CXS 150-1985).
Water for preparing brine shall be potable.
Odour and taste Fish sauce shall have an odour and taste characteristic of the product.
This product shall be free from foreign matter.
The packaging for the final product shall be free from any integrity defects, such as cracks, leakage, or loose pieces of the packaging units.
(b) Flexible containers should be filled as full as commercially practicable.
A container that fails to meet the requirement for minimum fill of Section 7.1.1 should be considered as a “defective”.
In addition, the average net weight or net volume shall be equal or greater than the declared net weight or net volume.
Competent authorities may require that total nitrogen (refer to section 3.4 ) be declared on the fish sauce label in g/l. Competent authorities may also require descriptors that reflect the total nitrogen level as an indicator of quality of the fish sauce.
The holder/seller shall be responsible for conforming to this standard.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, berries must be: - intact/whole; - fresh in appearance; - sound; berries, affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean; practically free of any visible foreign matter;ii, iii - practically free from pests;iv - practically free from damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste; including bitter taste in the case of bilberries; - free of damage caused by low and/or high temperature; and - the peduncle may be missing in non-panicle berries, provided that the rest is clean, and the juice does not drip from the breaking point. The development and condition of the berries after packing must be such as to enable them to: - withstand transportation and handling; and - arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
They must be free from defects, with the exception of very slight superficial defects, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality, the pulp or flesh and presentation in the package.
Berries shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).2
In addition to the requirement of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985),3 the following specific provisions apply:
In the case of a mixture of distinctly different species and/or varieties of berries of different origins for each species and variety, the indication of each country of origin shall appear next to the name of the species or variety concerned.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021)4 in addition the following requirements shall apply: Each package must bear the following particulars, in letters grouped on the same side, legibly and indelibly marked, and visible from the outside.
In the case of a mixture of distinctly different species and/or varieties of berries of different origins, the indication of each country of origin shall appear next to the name of the species and/or variety concerned.
This code of practice applies to the handling, storage and transport of all crude or processed edible oils and fats in bulk.
These should be considered when storing and transporting the oil.
Tanks in which the oil is being stored or shipped should always be clean and dry before use.
For each installation, the total storage capacity, size , and number of tanks need to be related to the siz e and frequency of intakes, rates of turnover and the number of different products handled , etc.
They are best suited for the carriage of single oils, in large volumes, where they can be loaded with valves open for fast receipt of the cargo and easier trim of the vessel.
Each tank may have one of a number of different coatings to suit a particular kind of cargo and each tank, or small group of tanks, will have its own dedicated pipelines and pumps.
The total coil length is normally divided into two or more separate coils, of a length suitable to avoid excessive accumulation of steam condensate.
For solid or semi-solid fats and high viscosity oils, road and rail tankers and ISO tank containers, where fitted with internal heating coils, these should be of stainless steel which can be coupled to a source of hot water or low-pressure steam (pressure up to 150 kPa [1.5 bars] gauge).
Insulation material should be impervious to oils and fats.
The recorder should be installed in a conspicuous location such as the supervisor's office or the ship's operations room.
However, if air is used a suitable means must be provided to prevent it being blown into the oil in the tanks.
Stainless steel should be used for fully refined products (see also Section 3.1.4c).
Couplings should be of stainless steel or other inert materials.
If detergents or alkali are used, all surfaces with which they have been in contact should be rinsed thoroughly with fresh water to ensure that no residues remain.
The coils should be covered completely before heating of the tank begins.
Under cold weather conditions, discharge temperatures should be at the maximum of those shown in Table 1, to prevent blocking of unheated pipelines.
The first pumpings of each grade should be collected where possible in separate tanks for quality checks.
They should include functioning of steam pressure regulation valves; all steam supply valves and steam traps for leakage; thermometers, thermostats, recording thermometers, weighing equipment and any gauge metres for function and accuracy; all pumps regulated by thermostat for leakage; integrity of tank coatings; hoses (internal and external) and condition of tanks and ancillary equipment.
This should include consideration of:  toxicological properties, including genotoxic and carcinogenic potential (account may be taken of the opinions of the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives ( JECFA) or other recognized bodies);  efficacy of cleaning procedures between cargoes;  dilution factor in relation to the potential amount of residue of the previous cargo and any impurity which the previous cargo might have contained, and the volume of oil or fat transported ;  solubility of possible contaminating residues;  subsequent refining/processing of the oil or fat;  availability of analytical methods for the detection of trace amounts of residues or for verifying the absence of contamination; and  reactivity of oils/fats with contaminating residues.
Date paste shall be packaged in containers having the following characteristics:
The transport and storage of the product shall be subject to the following requirements:
The product shall be labelled in accordance with the Codex General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1-1985), with the additional provisions that the label shall not be placed directly on the date paste, and that the following information shall appear on the container:
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the oranges must be: - whole; - sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; - practically free of damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste; - free of damage caused by low and/or high temperatures; - free of damage caused by frost; - free of signs of internal shrivelling; - practically free of bruising and/or extensive healed-over cuts.
The degree of colouring shall be such that, following normal development, the oranges reach their normal variety colour at their destination point, account being taken of the time of picking, the growing area and the duration of transport.
Uniformity in size is achieved by the above mentioned size scale, unless otherwise stated, as follows: (i) for fruit arranged in regular layers in the package, including unit consumer packages, the maximum difference between the smallest and the largest fruit, within a single size code or, in the case of oranges packed by count, within two adjacent codes, must not exceed the following maxima: Size Code Maximum difference between fruit in the same package in mm 0 to 2 11 3 to 6 9 7 to 13 7
In addition, uniformity of colouring is required for “Extra” Class.
In addition to the requirements of the Codex General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1-1985), the following specific provisions apply:
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package (or lot for produce presented in bulk) shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to the name of the variety and/or commercial type.
The produce should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria for Foods (CAC/GL 21-1997).
Both relaying and depuration must be subject to appropriate controls implemented by the official agency having jurisdiction.
Live bivalve molluscs should possess organoleptic characteristics associated with freshness, as well as an adequate response to percussion (i.e. the shellfish will close by themselves when tapped) and freedom from extraneous matter, as determined by specialists familiar with the species concerned.
Live bivalve molluscs shall be examined by the methods given in Section 1.8.
In addition, assessment of the status of harvesting areas and/or establishment controls should be undertaken.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) the following specific provisions apply:
