The product should be presented in one of the following styles: (a) whole – whole Chinese cabbage; (b) halves – Chinese cabbages divided lengthwise into halves; (c) quarters – Chinese cabbages divided lengthwise into quarters; and (d) slices or chips – Chinese cabbage leaves cut into pieces of 1~6 cm in length and width.
Kimchi shall have normal colour, flavour and odour and shall possess a texture characteristic of the product.
6.2 The product should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
(c) Texture – The product should be reasonably firm, crisp, and chewy.
The style should be included in close proximity to the name of the product.
The drained weight of the final product as a percentage by the indicated weight shall not be less than 80 percent by weight.
Taking into account the nature of remote audits and inspections, in deciding whether and when to use remote audit and inspection tools, competent authorities should consider the following:
Competent authorities conducting remote audits and/or inspections should: a. review legislation to ensure it supports remote audit and inspection activities as appropriate ; b. establish audit and inspection programs, policies and procedures which outline the conditions and scenarios for the use of remote versus physical audit and inspection activities as appropriate ; and c. provide clear direction to the entities to be audited or inspected (e.g. FBO, and other competent authorities) on the information and communication technology requirements necessary for successful execution of the remote audit/inspection and determine whether such requirements are feasible.
Competent authorities should be aware that remote audits or inspections may not be appropriate for all food business operations or competent authorities.
Competent authorities should perform remote audit and inspection activities in a manner that is proportionate to risks posed, noting: • the frequency of such audits or inspections should not be greater than that justified by the risk posed and by the performance of the FBO or NFCS in whole or in part; and • the scope of remote audits or inspection should be clearly defined and agreed by both parties and will be determined by the risk.
Consideration should be given to the technology required for a remote audit or inspection including: i. whether access to the relevant technology needed for a remote audit or inspection is a reasonable requirement; ii. whether the use of the proposed technology remains as the most appropriate approach or whether other types of remote audit or inspection would be able to provide the required level of assurance; iii. whether technical assistance or support is available to the FBOs and/or competent authorities in relation to the identified technology; iv. testing of connections and information technology systems between competent authority and FBO, and between competent authorities to ensure a successful audit; and v. both sides agreeing on contingencies when planning remote audit and inspection activities to manage possible interruptions caused by technological failures.
For example, for any person who may be instructed to take measurements or record activities during a remote audit or inspection , health and safety procedures should take into consideration the length of activity sessions, differences in time zones and need for breaks to maintain physical and mental well-being of all participants.
The salting process including the temperature and time should be sufficiently controlled to prevent the development of Clostridium botulinum or fish should be eviscerated prior to brining.
Very lightly salted fish must be kept frozen after processing.
Salt and all other ingredients used shall be of food grade quality and conform to all applicable Codex standards.
In addition the label shall include other descriptive terms that will avoid misleading or confusing the consumer.
Sampling of lots for histamine will be in accordance with the General Guidelines on Sampling (CXG 50-2004)
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with procedures elaborated in Section 7.3 through 7.8 and Annexes and in accordance with the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CXG 31-1999).
Determination of salt content is performed according to the method in the Standard for Salted Fish and Dried Salted Fish of Gadidae Family of Fishes (CXS 167-1989).
Determination of water content is performed according to AOAC 950.46B (air drying).
Weigh the herring and calculate net weigh.
Examination should be done in an adequately lighted room (where a newspaper may be read easily), without magnification, for evidence of parasites.
This Standard applies to a blend of skimmed milk and vegetable fat in powdered form, intended for direct consumption, or further processing, in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this Standard.
A blend of skimmed milk and vegetable fat in powdered form is a product prepared by the partial removal of water from milk constituents with the addition of edible vegetable oil, edible vegetable fat or a mixture thereof, to meet the compositional requirements in Section 3 of this Standard.
Where allowed in accordance with the General Principles for the Addition of Essential Nutrients for Food (CXG 9-1987), maximum and minimum levels for Vitamins A, D and other nutrients, where appropriate, should be laid down by national legislation in accordance with the needs of individual country including, where appropriate, the prohibition of the use of particular nutrients.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) the following specific provisions apply:
When a peduncle is present, it shall be no longer than 1.0 cm.
Mangoes are classified in three classes defined below:
The minimum weight of mangoes must not be less than 200 g.
In the smallest size range, mangoes must not be less than 180 g and for those in the largest size range a maximum of 925 g applies, as follows:
The visible part of the contents of the package must be representative of the entire
Mangoes shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Recommended International Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44-1995).
The definitions from The Guidelines for the Application of the HACCP System, e.g. control measure, step or critical control point, the definition of a microbiological criterion included in The Principles and Guidelines for the Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CAC/GL 21-1997) and the definition of interested parties included in The Working Principles for Risk Analysis for Application in the Framework of the Codex shall apply too.
PRINCIPLE 8: MRM decisions should be subject to monitoring and review and, if necessary, revision.
In those instances, the provisional nature of the decision should be communicated to all interested parties and the timeframe or circumstances under which the provisional decision will be reconsidered (e.g. reconsideration after the completion of a MRA) should be articulated when the decision is communicated initially).
The risk assessment policy could be of a generic nature or MRA-specific, and should be documented to ensure consistency, clarity and transparency.
Risk managers, in consultation with risk assessors, should then decide whether the MRA is in developing and/or evaluating and deciding on suitable MRM activities, or deciding on provisional MRM options.
establish regulatory requirements; develop (or encourage the development of) specific documents and guides e.g. Good Agricultural Practices (GAP), Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), Good Hygienic Practices (GHP), HACCP; adopt or adapt Codex standards and related texts to the national situation; define an FSO for a particular food safety issue, leaving flexibility to industry to select appropriate control measures to meet it; establish control measures specifying relevant requirements for industry that do not have the means to establish appropriate measures themselves or who adopt such control measures, including as appropriate metrics 13 at specific stages of the food/feed 14 chain where they are of critical importance to the performance of the overall chain; establish requirements for inspection and audit procedures, certification or approval procedures;
Whenever feasible, both Codex and countries should attempt to specify the level of control or risk reduction that is necessary (i.e. establish the stringency required for food safety control systems), while providing to the extent feasible some flexibility in options that the industry can use to achieve the appropriate level of control.
Such assistance should be provided by international intergovernmental organisations, e.g. FAO and WHO, and developed countries in the spirit of the SPS Agreement.
Monitoring activities can include the collection and analysis of data derived from: - surveillance of clinical diseases in humans, as well as diseases in plants and animals that can affect humans; - epidemiological investigations of outbreaks and other special studies; - surveillance based on laboratory tests of pathogens isolated from humans, plants, animals, foods, and food processing environments for pertinent foodborne hazards; - data on environmental hygiene practices and procedures; - behavioural risk factor surveillance of food worker and consumer habits and practices. When establishing or re-designing monitoring systems in countries, the following aspects should be considered: - A public health surveillance system should be able to estimate the proportion of illnesses and death that is truly foodborne and the major food vehicles, processes, and food handling practices responsible for each hazard; - Interdisciplinary teams of epidemiologists and food safety experts should be formed to investigate foodborne illness to identify the food vehicles and the series of events that lead to illnesses; - Microbiological and/or physicochemical indicators of a particular intervention should be considered together with human disease data to evaluate programmatic impact on public health; - Countries should work towards harmonisation of surveillance definitions and reporting rules, protocols, and data management systems, to facilitate comparison between countries of incidence and trends of the illnesses and microbiological data in the food chain.
A risk profile should present, to the extent possible, information on the following.
Epidemiology of foodborne disease; Aetiology of foodborne diseases; Characteristics of the foods implicated; Food use and handling that influences transmission of the hazard; Frequency and characteristics of foodborne sporadic cases; Epidemiological data from outbreak investigations; Regional, seasonal, and ethnic differences in the incidence of foodborne illness due to the hazard; Economic impact or burden of the disease if readily available; Medical, hospital costs; Working days lost due to illness, etc.
It is up to competent authorities to prioritize foods relevant to the countries for considering the application of MRM metrics.
metrics should be feasible, appropriate for the intended purpose, and applied within a specific food chain context at the appropriate step in that food chain. 4. Microbiological risk management metrics should be developed and appropriately implemented so they are consistent with the requirements of the regulatory/legal system in which they will be used.
Ideally, each of these factors that determine the effectiveness of a PdC would be transparently considered when the criterion was being established.
The quantitative aspects of these metrics have been specifically defined by the CAC, but application of metrics that have variations in their quantitative expression may still satisfy the goals and principles presented in this Annex.
Therefore, the following generic guidelines should apply:
A critical component of establishing such a metric is ensuring that the underlying assumptions are understood by the risk managers and interested parties.
Compositional modifications of dairy fat spreads are restricted by the requirements of Section 4.3.3 of the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999).
Dairy fat spreads that have been sweetened shall be labelled to indicate that they have been sweetened.
The milk fat content shall be declared in a manner found acceptable in the country of retail sale, either (i) as a percentage by mass, or (ii) in grams per serving as quantified in the label provided that the number of servings is stated.
Processed cereal-based foods are prepared primarily from one or more milled cereals, which should constitute at least 25 percent of the final mixture on a dry weight basis.
The energy density of cereal-based foods should not be less than 3.3 kJ/g (0.8 kcal/g).
- the amount of added carbohydrates from these sources shall not exceed 1.8 g/100 kJ (7.5 g/100 kcal); and - the amount of added fructose shall not exceed 0.9 g/100 kJ (3.75 g/100 kcal).
If the lipid content exceeds 0.8 g/100 kJ (3.3 g/100 kcal): - the amount of linoleic acid (in the form of triglycerides = linoleates) shall not be less than 70 mg/100 kJ (300 mg/100 kcal) and shall not exceed 285 mg/100 kJ (1200 mg/100 kcal); - the amount of lauric acid shall not exceed 15 percent of the total lipid content; and - the amount of myristic acid shall not exceed 15 percent of the total lipid content.
The calcium content shall not be less than 12 mg/100 kJ (50 mg/100 kcal) for products mentioned in Section 2.1.4 manufactured with the addition of milk and presented as such.
3.7.4 Vitamins and/or minerals added should be selected from the Advisory Lists of Nutrient Compounds for Use in Foods for Special Dietary Uses intended for Infants and Children (CXG 10-1979).3
3.8.2 Products containing honey or maple syrup should be processed in such a way as to destroy spores of Clostridium botulinum, if present. 3.8.3 Only L(+) lactic acid producing cultures may be used.
The moisture content of the products shall be governed by good manufacturing practice for the individual product categories and shall be at such a level that there is a minimum loss of nutritive value and at which microorganisms cannot multiply.
- the amount of added carbohydrates from these sources shall not exceed 1.2 g/100 kJ (5 g/100 kcal); and - the amount of added fructose shall not exceed 0.6 g/100 kJ (2.5 g/100 kcal).
- the amount of linoleic acid (in the form of triglycerides = linoleates) shall not be less than 70 mg/100 kJ (300 mg/100 kcal) and shall not exceed 285 mg/100 kJ (1200 mg/100 kcal); - the amount of lauric acid shall not exceed 15 percent of the total lipid content; and - the amount of myristic acid shall not exceed 15 percent of the total lipid content.
The product shall be free from residues of hormones, antibiotics as determined by means of agreed methods of analysis and practically free from other contaminants, especially pharmacologically active substances.
The product should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).5
7.1 The product shall be packed in containers which will safeguard the hygienic and other qualities of the food.
The name of the food shall be "Dry cereal for infants (and/or young children)", "Rusks for infants (and/or young children)" or "Biscuits (or "milk biscuits") for infants (and/or young children)" or "Pasta for infants (and/or young children)", or any appropriate designation indicating the true nature of the food, in accordance with national legislation.
Wheat or wheat flour essentially free from other seeds and foreign matter in accordance with Good Manufacturing Practice.
WPP shall conform to the following compositional requirements:
The products covered by the provisions of this standard shall comply with those maximum limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
WPP shall be packed in suitable hygienic containers which will maintain the product during storage and transport in a dry and sanitary condition.
Cautionary statements for gluten intolerant persons shall be on the label if required by national legislation.
A complete list of ingredients shall be decla red on the label in descending order of proportion except that in the case of added vitamins and added minerals, these ingredients shall be arranged as separate groups for vitamins and minerals, respectively, and within these groups the vitamins and minera ls need to be listed in descending order of proportion.
The name of the food shall be "vital wheat gluten" or "wheat gluten".
The name of the food shall be "devitalized wheat gluten" or "devital wheat gluten".
The name of the food shall be "solubilized wheat protein" or “soluble wheat protein”.
Optional ingredients of animal origin shall be declared on the label of the product to read as follows: “Contains (state optional ingredient) of animal origin”.
Except for artificially coloured canned raspberries, the raspberries shall have normal colour characteristics for canned raspberries and typical of the variety used.
Canned raspberries shall have a normal flavour and odour free from flavours or odours foreign to the product.
The raspberries shall have a reasonably uniform texture and shall not be excessively firm nor unreasonably soft.
A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in subsection 2.2.1 through 2.2.4 (except extraneous plant material which is based on an average), shall be considered a "defective".
When the packing medium is composed of two or more fruit juices, which may include raspberry juice, it shall be declared as: "In (name of fruits) juice" or "In fruit juices" or "In mixed fruit juices".
In the case of trusses of tomatoes, the stalks must be fresh, healthy, clean and free of all leaves and any visible foreign matter.
- to withstand transport and handling; and - to arrive in satisfactory condition at place of destination.
The development and state of maturity of the tomatoes must be such as to enable them to continue their ripening process and to reach the appropriate degree of ripeness.
Their colouring, according to their state of ripeness, must be such as to satisfy the requirements set out in Section 2.1.1 above.
Tomatoes shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Recommended International Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruit and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44-1995).
These details must always be provided for “cherry” and “cocktail” tomatoes, whether in trusses or not; Name of the variety (optional).
Class; Size expressed as minimum and maximum diameters (if sized).
Pulses shall be free from filth (impurities of animal origin, including dead insects) in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Pulses shall have not more than 1 percent extraneous matter of which not more than 0.25 percent shall be mineral matter and not more than 0.10 percent shall be dead insects, fragments or remains of insects, and/or other impurities of animal origin.
Pulses shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
Pulses shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC) for this commodity.
Pulses shall comply with those maximum mycotoxin limits established by the CAC for this commodity.
To the extent possible in good manufacturing practice, the products shall be free from objectionable matter.
When tested by appropriate methods of sampling and examination, the products: – shall be free from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; – shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and – shall not contain any substance originating from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
Pulses shall be packaged in containers which will safeguard the hygienic, nutritional, technological, and organoleptic qualities of the product.
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be the commercial type of the pulse.
The use of the terms “preserve” and “conserve” are thereby required to comply with the requirements for jam and/or extra jam as set out in this standard.
(b) Foodstuffs with sweetening properties as defined in Section 2.2.
The following percentage fruit content for jams and jellies specified at 3.1.2 (a) or 3.1.2 (b) below shall apply and labelled in accordance with Section 8.2:
When fruits are mixed together, the minimum content must be reduced in proportion to the percentages used.
The products, as defined in Section 2.1, shall be produced such that the quantity of fruit ingredient used as a percentage of finished product shall be not less than 35 percent in general, with the exception of the following fruits: - 25 percent for blackcurrants, mangoes, quinces, rambutan , redcurrants, rosehips, roselles, rowanberries and sea-buckthorns; - 20 percent for soursop and cranberry;
In the case of the finished product defined in Section 3.1.2 (d), the soluble solids content shall be 40 – 65% or less.
A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements as set out in Section 3.3.1 should be considered as a “defective”.
The product, as defined in Section 2.1, shall be produced such that the quantity of fruit ingredient used as a percentage of the finished product shall not be less than 30 percent in general, with the exception of the following fruits: ­ 11 percent for ginger.
Jelly and extra jelly shall be reasonably clear or transparent.
If an indication of fruit content is given, this should relate to the quantity and type of fruit ingredient used in the product as sold with a deduction for the weight of any water used in preparing the aqueous extracts.
The name used should be in accordance with the legislation of the country of retail sale.
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended methods of analysis and sampling (CXS 234-1999)11 relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
Cumin shall have a characteristic colour varying from light grey to dark brown.
Whole, cracked and ground cumin shall comply with the chemical requirements specified in Table 2.
A lot sample that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Section 3.2 (except those based on sample averages), should be considered as a defective.
It is recommended that the products covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the Code of Hygienic Practice for Low-Moisture Foods (CXC 75-2015)3 (Annex III) and other relevant Codex Alimentarius texts such as codes of hygienic practice and codes of practice.
The fruit shall be peeled, cored, trimmed, deseeded or pitted as may be applicable for the respective fruit in normal culinary preparation.
Cut-out strength of sweetened juice or syrup shall be determined on sample average, but no container may have a Brix value lower than that of the minimum of the next category below, if applicable.
Canned tropical fruit salad shall have a colour characteristic of the mixed processed fruit, except that a slight bleaching of colour from the coloured cherries is acceptable.
Canned tropical fruit salad shall have a normal flavour and odour characteristic for the particular blend of fruit.
When tested by appropriate methods of sampling and examination, the product: - shall be free from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; - shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and - shall not contain any substance originating from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
When sugars are added to one or more fruit juices, the packing medium shall be declared as may be appropriate: “Lightly sweetened (name of fruit) juice”
For checking compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999)3 relevant to the provisions in this standard shall be used.
A complete list of ingredients shall be declared on the label in descending order of proportion in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985),2 except as provided for in 7.2.2 and 7.2.3.
Asymptomatic infections and shedding are common and have to be considered in food production.
They should complement controls in place for any other pathogens.
This Annex on the Control of Hepatitis A Virus (HAV) and Norovirus (NoV) in Fresh Produce (Annex II) is a supplement to the Guidelines on the Application of General Principles of Food Hygiene to the Control of Viruses in Food and provides additional recommendations for this specific virus-commodity combination.
Harvesting equipment, utensils and containers should be in a clean condition and in good working order.
The control of NoV and HAV in fresh produce should focus on the prevention of contamination of fresh produce with human faecal material, as there are limited effective post-harvest treatments to eliminate viruses available at present.
These prerequisite programs, together with validated interventions, e.g., as part of a HACCP-based system, provide a framework for the control of enteric viruses.
If an outbreak has been traced back to an establishment, the necessary steps should be taken to find the source, to eliminate the virus, and to avoid future outbreaks.
Hygienic and sanitary facilities should: • be located in proximity to the production area; • be located in areas adjacent to the processing area, but without direct access to it; • be in sufficient numbers to accommodate personnel; • be of appropriate design to ensure hygienic removal of wastes; • be designed so that there is no seepage into underground water or enter the agricultural field; • have adequate means for washing and drying hands; • be maintained under sanitary conditions and good repair; • be appropriately cleaned and disinfected (see 6.2 cleaning programmes); and • be separate for guests and personnel of the establishment, when feasible.
There should be hand washing facilities within close proximity to the toilets and positioned so that the personnel must pass by them before returning to the food handling area.
Processing combinations should be subject to rigorous validation to ensure consumer protection.
Managers and supervisors should understand the importance of applying good hygiene practices and personnel health and hygiene, in aspects such as: • the availability of adequate hygiene facilities; • compliance with hand washing instructions; • exclusion from the premises of food handlers or any persons, including children, with symptoms of gastroenteritis or acute hepatitis or those recovering from these infections (see Section 7.2); • how to clean and disinfect surfaces when contaminated.
It is recommended that control procedures used for viruses be monitored to ensure their continuing effectiveness.
Food possibly contaminated with virus particles should be discarded in a manner such that contact between this food and any person, food or food contact surfaces is prevented.
A food establishment shall have a set of procedures to be followed by employees when responding to vomiting or diarrhoea events that involve the discharge of vomitus or faecal matter onto surfaces and that address the specific actions employees must take to minimize the potential for the spreading of contamination and for increasing exposure of employees, food, and surfaces to vomitus or faecal matter.
There is a need for strict personal hygiene of food handlers, particularly in relation to the prevention of NoV and/or HAV, contamination.
It is also the responsibility of all personnel to adhere to strict hand washing instructions after returning from the toilet or after being in contact with faecal or vomit matter.
Control measures to prevent fresh produce becoming contaminated by contagious food handlers.
Also inspectors or other relevant authorities who inspect fields, post harvest processing plants, and eating facilities should be provided with the above training, and be aware of the instructions.
Because of viral persistence, it is recommended that growing areas be registered for a two month period prior to harvest and that harvest areas also be registered.
Consumers should be made aware of the risk of becoming infected with NoV or HAV after consuming raw or treated bivalve molluscs.
Therefore, measures should be taken to prevent viral contamination of bivalve molluscs by improving environmental conditions (particularly water quality) in production and harvesting areas.
Recommendations for handling practices to maintain the safety of fresh produce at wholesale, retail, food services or in the home are covered in General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969), the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 53 – 2003) and the main part of this document.
also increase t he risk of contaminating fresh produce.
Primary production activities should be conducted following good hygienic practices in order to minimize potential risks of contamina tion of fresh produce with NoV and HAV.
Personnel hygiene facilities and toilets (permanent or portable), including appropriate hand washing facilities, should be present in close vicinity of the fields where agricultural workers are working.
This Standard applies to bouillons, consommés (meat and poultry) and similar products named by other corresponding culinary terms intended for direct consumption and presented either in their ready -to-eat or in dehydrated, condensed, frozen or concentrated form.
Water shall be of potable quality in accordance with the latest edition of the WHO Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality.
shall be prepared by using beef meat and/or beef extracts with or without the use of other meats or meat extracts than those of bovine origin.
shall contain per litre: Total Nitrogen min. 100 mg Sodium chloride max. 12.5 g
shall contain per litre: Total Nitrogen min. 50 mg Sodium chloride max. 12.5 g
The flavourings used in products covered by this standard should comply with the Guidelines for the Use of Flavourings (CXG 66-2008) in food category 12.5 (Soups and broths).
The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21- 1997).
shall contain per litre: Beef, expressed as fresh meat min. 10 g or Beef extract min. 0.67 g Sodium chloride max. 12.5 g
The name of the product shall be: Meat bouillon if the product complies with the appropriate requirement as contained in Sections 3.2.1 and 3.2.1.1. Beef bouillon if the product complies with the appropriate requirement as contained in Section 3.2.1 and 3.2.1.1 and the total creatinine content is derived from beef. Meat consommé if the product complies with the appropriate requirement as contained in Sections 3.2.1 and 3.2.1.2.
Sampling shall be in accordance with the Codex General Guidelines on Sampling (CXG 50-2004).
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the guavas must be: - whole; - sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; - practically free of damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage ; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste; - firm; - practically free of bruising.
Guavas are classified in three classes defined below:
The development and condition of the guavas must be such as to enable them: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
Guavas shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995). 1 For the purposes of this Standard, this includes recycled material of food-grade quality.
These Guidelines should be taken into account in the judgement of equivalence by importing countries where such measures differ from their own, thereby facilitating international trade.
Preliminary risk management activities appropriate to these Guidelines include: ul Development of a national or regional level risk profile taking into account the generic Codex risk profile; and ul Evaluation of the epidemiological evidence supporting a risk-based approach relative to the national or regional situation or trade in meat.
This system should provide for evaluation of the performance of the selected control measures relative to the level of consumer protection that is sought and may include:  Collection and evaluation of slaughterhouse information as well as related laboratory reports (e.g. histopathology);  Trace back to the farm when suspect cysts are found in the slaughterhouse and application of on-farm controls and more intensive slaughterhouse inspection if required by the competent authority;  Notification of results of intensified inspection to the competent authority;  Involving public health authorities.
The competent authority should make appropriate information (e.g. monitoring, investigation information) publicly available where possible when there is a public health risk and conduct public education campaigns as appropriate.
Analytical characteristics of the subtype are determined on the packing medium after equalization.
The product shall be presented in one of the following styles:
The prepared halves are cut at right angle to the longitudinal direction into strips of approximately 10 mm width.
The cucumbers shall have normal colour characteristics typical of the variety, type of pack and style.
The cucumbers shall be reasonably firm, crisp and practically free from shrivelled, soft and flabby units and reasonably free from very large seeds.
The cucumbers shall have a good flavour typical of the type of pack and in consideration of any characterizing flavouring or special ingredients used.
(b) Ring cut; slices; cross cuts 80 percent or more by weight of units having the most uniform size meet the following requirement for individual containers or sample units. Diameter – the diameter of the largest unit shall not exceed that of the smallest unit by more than 50 percent.
A container that fails to meet the applicable quality requirements as set out in Section 3.2 shall be considered a defective.
The name of the product is: “Pickled cucumbers”, “Cucumber pickles”, “Pickles” or “Gherkins”.
The cucumber ingredient shall occupy not less than 55 percent for cured type and 53 percent for fresh pack type of the total capacity (volume) of the container.
The vegetable and fruit ingredient in styles other than whole shall occupy: (a) not less than 55 percent in the case of fresh pack; and (b) not less than 57 percent in the case of cured, of the total capacity (volume) of the container.
(a) the type of pack, e.g. “Fresh pack” or “Cured pack”; (b) the style of pack and the subtype, including the name of the herb in relation to subtype in Section 2.2.3 (b); (c) the subtype “dill” which may be declared “natural dill ” or “genuine dill ” when the cucumbers are fermented naturally in a low salt concentration brine; and (d) in whole style, the approximate count range in containers larger than four litres.
As these steps are performed at the industry level, industry should establish food safety specific programs to reduce the OTA level in the processed cocoa products meant for human consumption.
Transport of fresh/wet beans from pod opening sites to on-farm fermentation facility should be done under conditions that will prevent contamination e.g. spilled beans must be free of soil before being fermented.
41. Drying equipment and tools should be cleaned regularly.
The tools and baskets used to transport the fruits must be clean and the tools sharpened regularly.
The primary purpose of this Annex is to provide specific guidance o n how to minimize microbiological hazards during primary production through packing and transport of fresh melons, including fresh melons processed for the pre -cut market and consumer use.
This Annex covers specific guidance related to all areas, from primary production to consumption, of fresh melons that are intended to be consumed without further microbiocidal steps.
For wild berries , only the measures for handling and post-harvest activities (i.e. from Section 3.3 onwards) apply.
This Annex follows the format of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969) and should be used in conjunction with it and other applicable codes such as the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003) and Annex I, on Ready-to-Eat, Fresh, Pre-cut Fruits and Vegetables.
Refer to definitions in the General Principles of Food Hygiene and the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables.
Refer to Section 3 of the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003) in addition to the following:
Growers should allow a drying period, if possible, before harvesting berries to reduce the risk of contamination with food-borne pathogens.
If biodegradable materials and/or mulch are used, they should be applied only once, not reused, so as to prevent cross-contamination.
Neither wild nor domestic animals should be allowed to graze (e.g. employing sheep for spring clip back of alfalfa) in the fields where seeds destined for the production of sprouts for human consumption are grown.
Agricultural inputs should not contain contaminants (as defined under the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969)) at levels that may adversely affect the safety of fresh fruits and vegetables, and should take into consideration the WHO guidelines on the safe use of wastewater and excreta in agriculture and aquaculture, as appropriate.
Clean or potable water should be used for berry production.
For drip irrigation, care should be taken to avoid creating pools of water on the soil surface or in furrows that may come into contact with melon rinds.
The following should be taken into consideration: • Water used in hydroponic culture should be changed frequently or, if recycled, treated to minimize microbial and chemical contamination; • Water-delivery systems should be maintained and cleaned, as appropriate, to prevent microbial contamination of water; and • In the case of combination of aquaculture and hydroponics (i.e. aquaponics), effluent from fish tanks should be treated to minimize microbial and chemical contamination.
Consequently, manure, biosolids and other natural fertilizers should only be used when they have undergone treatment to reduce pathogens to levels unlikely to result in contamination.
Fresh fruits and vegetables may come into direct contact with soil during growth or harvesting; production practices like site selection or mulch should be used to minimize contact.
Seed producers should only use chemicals (e.g. pesticides, desiccants) acceptable for seeds intended for the production of sprouts for human consumption.
Growers should use only biological controls that are authorized for the cultivation of the specific fruit or vegetable and in accordance the manufacturer’s instructions for the intended purpose.
Methods for the adequate maintenance of the environment around such structures include:
Each establishment should be evaluated individually in order to identify specific hygienic requirements for each product.
Non-potable water systems should be identified and should not connect with or allow reflux into potable water systems.
• Refuse containers should be emptied regularly.
Whenever possible, harvesting, post-harvest activities, packing and inspection processes should be designed to reduce handling.
To the extent possible, the hygienic and sanitary facilities should: • be located in close proximity to the fields and indoor premises, in sufficient number to accommodate personnel and appropriate for both women and men, so as to encourage their use and reduce the likelihood of agricultural workers relieving themselves in the field; • be appropriately designed to ensure the hygienic removal of wastes and avoid the contamination of growing sites, fresh fruits and vegetables or agricultural inputs; • provide adequate means for hygienically washing and drying hands; • be maintained under sanitary conditions and in good repair; • include clean running water, soap, toilet paper or equivalent, and single use paper towels or equivalent; multiple use cloth drying towels should not be used; hand sanitizers should not replace hand washing and should be used only after hands have been washed; • be equipped with an acceptable alternative hand-washing method recommended by the relevant competent authority if clean running water is not available; • when of a portable nature, not be cleaned in cultivation areas or near irrigation water sources or conveyance systems; growers should identify the areas where it is safe to put portable facilities;
Prior to harvest, harvesting equipment should be adjusted to minimize soil intake and seed damage , and cleaned of all debris or soil.
• Medical examination of agricultural workers should be carried out if clinically or epidemiologically indicated.
Personnel should wash their hands before starting work involving the handling of fruits and vegetables, each time they return to handling areas after a break, immediately after using the toilet, or after handling any contaminated material where this could result in contamination of fresh fruits and vegetables.
• Growers should take measures to train agricultural workers on safe handling, transport and storage practices to ensure that berries are immediately cooled after harvesting.
In order to prevent microbial cross-contamination of berries, growers should continuously reinforce the importance of good hygienic practices during pre-harvest, harvest and post-harvest activities.
The following procedures should be adopted:
• Clean water should be used to clean all equipment coming into direct contact with fresh fruits and vegetables, including farm machinery, harvesting and transportation equipment, containers and knives.
• Cleaning chemicals may be subject to approval by the competent authority and should be handled and used carefully and in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions.
When fresh fruit and vegetable packing and/or processing establishments are not used during a certain period, measures should be taken to minimize pest infestations or to correct them and their risk of contamination prior to use.
Storage areas for waste should be kept clean.
Care should be taken to ensure that equipment used in the handling of fruits and vegetables does not damage the product and can be cleaned and disinfected so as to avoid becoming a source of contamination, such as from biofilms.
Refer to Section 5 of the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003) in addition to the following: Refer to Section 5 of the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003) in addition to the following: Refer to Section 5 of the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 53-2003) in addition to the following: Refer to Section 5 of the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003) in addition to:
This system should always be maintained in good condition to ensure it does not become a source of product contamination.
Prior to packing, berries that are soiled, damaged or come in with debris (e.g. insects) should be inspected and culled.
• Ice should be made from potable water and produced, handled and stored in such a manner as to protect it from contamination.
The a pplication of biocides should be followed by rinsing as necessaryto ensure that chemical residues do not exceed levels established by the competent authority.
The temperature of storage areas and transport vehicles should be monitored regularly and effectively.
Where necessary and when used, soils or other matrices should be treated (e.g. pasteurized) to reduce pathogens to levels that are unlikely to result in contamination.
Only workers who have been trained on hygienic handling should be assigned to pick and pack berries.
Berries should be cooled and stored as soon as possible under temperature controls within the processes.
Damaged or decayed fruits and vegetables should be discarded in a manner that does not attract pests.
Operators such as growers and contract harvesters should keep up to date all relevant information on agricultural activities such as the site of production; suppliers’ information on agricultural inputs; lot numbers of agricultural inputs; irrigation practices; use of agricultural chemicals, including type and date used; harvest practices and harvest date; water quality data; pest control; and cleaning schedules for indoor establishments, premises, facilities, equipment and containers.
Packers should maintain up-to-date information concerning each lot, including on incoming materials (e.g. information from growers, lot numbers), processing-water quality data, pest-control programmes, cooling and storage temperatures, chemicals used in post-harvest treatments, and cleaning schedules for premises, facilities, equipment and containers, etc.
Processors should consider establishing and maintaining records to identify the source of each ingredient in the product.
Where appropriate, written SOPs should be developed and implemented for the cleaning and disinfection of all equipment.
Food contact surfaces should be cleaned and disinfected before the start of operations, at the beginning of the season, and throughout their use to ensure microbial pathogens do not become established in the facility or on the equipment.
Pest-control systems should be implemented to minimize pest harbourage and access in the establishment and to ensure that pests do not become a source of contamination of fresh fruits and vegetables or food contact surfaces.
When necessary, instructions to wash the produce should be provided.
Refer to Section 10 of the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003) in addition to the following:
They should be aware of their role and responsibility in protecting fresh fruit and vegetables from contamination during cleaning and maintenance.
In addition to those listed in the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003), specific personnel training programmes should cover safe handling, transport and storage practices and ensure that berries are immediately cooled after harvesting.
Given the ability for pathogens to survive and grow on fresh produce, it is important for the pre -cut industry to follow good hygienic practices (GHPs) to ensure the microbiological safety of its products.
• Produce, except that to be packed in liquid, should be dried or drained to remove water after washing so as to minimize microbiological growth.
The process should be repeated until most of the dirt is removed and the rinse water remains clear.
• The duration of treatment and the concentration of biocide used should be evaluated and determined for the type of seed.
Rinsing should be repeated sufficiently to reduce and/or eliminate the biocide.
After soaking, seeds should be rinsed thoroughly with potable water.
Harvesting should be carried out using dedicated tools, cleaned and disinfected prior to use.
If additional cooling time is necessary, steps should be taken to facilitate rapid cooling (e.g. product placed in smaller containers with adequate air flow between containers).
Seed and sprout producers should obtain from seed producers or distributors: assurances that chemical residues in each incoming lot are within the limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission; and, where appropriate, certificates of analysis for microbial pathogens of concern.
Seeds should be stored off the floor, away from walls and in proper storage conditions to prevent mould and bacterial growth and to facilitate pest-control inspection.
• Because of the sporadic nature of seed contamination, it is recommended that producers should test every production lot (e.g. each drum, bin or rack of trays).
• Seeds and sprouts which may present a hazard should be held and detained until they are disposed of properly.
Refer to Section 10 of the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003).
The primary purpose of this Annex is to provide specific guidance to minimize microbiological hazards during primary production until packing and distribution of fresh berries and consumer use, including fresh RTE berries and those processed without a microbiocidal step (e.g. frozen RTE berries).
Preference should be given to field packing berries into consumer-ready containers that will not be washed after harvest (e.g. strawberries) so as to minimize the possibility of microbial contamination through additional handling steps.
Concentrated fish oils (2.5.1) and highly concentrated fish oils (2.5.2) shall contain at least 50 w/w percent of fatty acids as sum of EPA and DHA in the form of triglycerides and/or phospholipids.
