The visible part of the contents of the package (or lot for produce presented in bulk) must be representative of the entire conten ts.
Pummelos shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package (or lot for produce presented in bulk) shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type.
Sorghum grains shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Sorghum grains shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC) for this commodity.
The product shall have not more than 8 percent total defects including extraneous matter, inorganic extraneous matter, and filth as contained in the standards and blemished grains, diseased grains, broken kernels, and other grains as contained in the Annex.
(b) For decorticated sorghum grains, the tannin content shall not exceed 0.3 percent on a dry matter basis.
Sorghum grains shall have not more than 2 percent extraneous matter of which not more than 0.5 percent shall be extraneous inorganic matter.
Sorghum grains shall comply with those maximum mycotoxin limits established by the CAC for this commodity.
Sorghum grains shall be packaged in containers which will safeguard the hygienic, nutritional, technological, and organoleptic qualities of the product.
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended methods of analysis and sampling (CXS 234-1999)3 relevant to the provisions in this standard shall be used.
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “sorghum grains”.
Governments should work with other parties to promote ethical conduct at the national level.
These products shall be designated with a qualifying statement which describes the true nature in such a way that it does not mislead the consumer and that it does not lead to confusion with products covered by this standard.
The heat treatment shall be applied after the container is sealed and shall be sufficient to ensure that the product is shelf-stable and that it presents no public health hazard.
The total protein content in the final product shall not be less than 21% m/m.
The meat from which the product is prepared shall be of a quality suitable for human consumption and free from objectionable odours and flavours.
The meat shall be uniformly and thoroughly cured and the product shall be capable of being sliced, when chilled.
The provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), excepting Section 5.2 (Irradiated Foods) which is not relevant, shall apply:
The name of the food to be declared on the label shall be "Corned Beef".
For canned corned beef which is a shelf-stable product the date of minimum durability shall be indicated by the year.
The format of the information given should be appropriate for the person for whom it is intended.
Foods for special medical purposes shall be labelled with complete nutrition labelling as follows:
The date of minimum durability as provided for in Section 4.7 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1-1985) shall be declared.
Information on energy value shall be expressed in kJ and kcal per 100 g or per 100 ml as sold as well as per specified quantity of the food as suggested for consumption.
Information on the amounts of vitamins and essential minerals shall be expressed in metric units per 100 g or per 100 ml as sold as well as per specified quantity of the foods as suggested for consumption.
Information on osmolality or osmolarity and/or on acid-base balance shall be given when appropriate.
In addition, information on the nature of the animal or plant proteins or protein hydrolysates should be provided.
Foods for special medical purposes in which the essential characteristic involves a specific modification of the content or the nature of the proteins, fats or carbohydrates shall bear a description of this modification and information on the amino acid, fatty acid or carbohydrate profile, when necessary.
"USE UNDER MEDICAL SUPERVISION" shall appear on the label in bold letters in an area separated from other written, printed, or graphic information.
Adequate directions for the preparation including the requirement to add other ingredients, for the use of the food and for its storage and keeping after the container has been opened, shall be included on the label.
An additional prominent warning statement consisting of an explanatory statement shall appear on the label in bold letters in an area separated from other written, printed or graphic information if the food for special medical purpose poses a health hazard when consumed by individuals who do not have the disease(s), disorder(s) or medical condition(s) for which the food is intended.
A statement that the product is not to be used for parenteral administration shall appear on the label.
A prominent statement indicating whether the product is or is not intended as the sole source of nutrition
The total mineral weight of the remaining sample is considered the ash content.
Ginseng product is the product: (a) prepared from all part of fresh and sound ginseng roots, derived from Panax ginseng C.A.Meyer or P. quinquefolius L., cultivated for commercial purposes and used for foods; (b) packaged in such a manner as to safeguard the safety and nutritional and quality characteristics of the products; (c) processed in an appropriate manner, undergoing operations such as drying, steaming, cutting, powdering, extraction and concentration in conformity with Section 2.2.
Collect from above (A) or below (B) the boundary surface of the relevant solvent when each solvent is separated and stored to increase the purity of the developing solvent.
The analytical conditions can be adjusted depending on the laboratory conditions, but the peaks of Rb 1, and Rf in the chromatogram should NOT be located in the first 5 minutes NOR in the last 5 minutes of the retention time.
A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, set out in Sections 3.2 and 3.3, should be considered a “defective”.
Ginseng products shall have normal flavour, colour, taste and a ginsenoside pattern unique to specific species of ginseng as well as be free from foreign matter.
In addition, in the case of product is manufactured from P . ginseng C.A. Meyer, ginsenoside Rf should be also be qualitatively detected.
In addition, in case of the product manufactured from P . ginseng C.A. Meyer, ginsenoside Rf should be also be qualitatively detected.
Dried ginseng samples are pulverized using a grinder to make approximately 3 -mm-sized particles for the experiment.
Moisture content in the sample (%) = 𝑆−(𝑊1−𝑊0)𝑆 × 100 W0: Weight of the weighing bottle (g) W1: Weight of the weighing bottle with the sample after drying (g) S: Weight of the sample (g)
The ginseng extract is used in the experiment as is.
7.3 Repeat procedures step 7.1 and 7.2 two more times for the solid remains in the round flat flask (A).
8.9 Calculate the water-saturated n-butanol content in the ginseng extract using the same method as described in step 7.10.
The style shall appear on the label in conjunction with, or in close proximity to the name of the product, to avoid misleading or confusing the consumer.
The common names of the ginseng species shall be declared in accordance with the law and custom of the country where the products is consumed, in a manner not to mislead the consumer.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in a ccordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).
The dried 1-butanol extract obtained according to the method for the measurement of the water -saturated n-butanol extract in Annex II is completely dissolved in 10 ml of methanol and then filtered through a 0.45 -µm membrane filter.
Reference substances for ginsenoside Rb1 and ginsenoside Rf are dissolved in methanol to concentrations of 0.2%, and then the solutions are filtered through a 0.45-µm membrane filter.
Identification of ginsenosides Rb1, and Rf Ginsenosides in ginseng products can be identified by thin -layer chromatography (TLC) or high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC).
(d) Place the cover on and let it stand until the inside of the developing chamber is sufficiently saturated (30 minutes).
Then, draw a line (ending line) at exactly 8 cm from the starting line.
(d) When the developing solvent reaches the ending line, the TLC plate is taken out and dried with a dryer.
Note, however, that the drying time should be 1-2 hours.
Then, mix the sample well with the sea sand and evenly spread the mixture on the surfaces of the weighing bottle walls using the glass rod.
Manufacturers should select and apply those techniques that are appropriate to their own processes and products.
In addition, environmental impacts of the recommended mitigation practices should be considered.
Therefore, where data are available, this document specifies when the mitigation approach is specific to palm oil, and when it may be more widely applicable to other refined oils, including fish oils.
Farmers should transport oil palm fruits to oil mills as soon as possible.
Bleaching Use greater amounts of bleaching clay in vegetable oils and fish oils. Use more pH-neutral clays to reduce acidity in palm oils, some seed oils, and fish oils.
However, additional post processing using mild deodorization is needed to address sensory considerations.
Transport oil palm fruits to oil mills as soon as possible.
POTENTIAL MITIGATION MEASURES FOR REDUCING 3-MCPDEs AND GEs The mitigation measures are not listed in order of priority It is recommended that reduction measures be tested to identify the most successful for your own product.
The mitigation measures are not listed in order of priority It is recommended that reduction measures be tested to identify the most successful for your own product
• Reduce the amount of refined vegetable oils or fish oils in finished products.
• Select refined vegetable oils or fish oils with lower levels of 3-MCPDE and GE.
• Treat refined MCT (medium-chain triglyceride) oil with fatty acids and a cation counterion, such as an alkali metal, as well as one or more bases to convert 3-MCPDE to MAGs, DAGs and TAGs and GE to DAGs.
• Use short-path distillation (in place of deodorization) to reduce the thermal load in fish oil.
3.1.2 All processes applied to materials used for the production of couscous must be carried out in order to: (a) limit the reduction of nutritive value (b) avoid undesirable modification of properties of couscous 3.1 Granularity (microns) min. 630 microns to max. 2000 microns, with a tolerance of 6%. 3.2 Ash(%) maximum 1.1%
No food additives shall be added during the industrial processing of couscous. 4.1 Ash ISO 2171-1980, Cereals, Legumes and Derived Products – Determination of ash.
6.1 It is recommended that the product covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared in accordance with the appropriate sections of the Recommended International Code of Practice – General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1 -1969), and other Codes of Practice recommended by the Codex Alimentarius Commission which are relevant to the product.
3.1.2 All processes applied to materials used for the production of couscous must be carried out in order to: (a) limit the reduction of nutritive value (b) avoid undesirable modification of properties of couscous
3.2.1 Moisture content The moisture content of couscous shall not exceed 13.5%.
Couscous shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
Couscous shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity.
Couscous shall comply with those maximum mycotoxin limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity.
(a) limit the reduction of nutritive value (b) avoid undesirable modification of properties of couscous
The moisture content of couscous shall not exceed 13.5%.
6.2 To the extent possible in good manufacturing practice, the product shall be free from objectionable matter.
(a) shall be free from micro-organisms capable of development in the food under normal conditions of storage; and (b) shall not contain any substance originating from micro-organisms in amounts which may represent a health hazard.
Page 3 Inspectors should be trained in the techniques required for the inspection of canned foods for container defects, with particular reference to the detection and identification of unacceptable defects as depicted in the manual and listed in Appendix 2.
Inspectors should also have the authority to control the disposal of defective cans and the entire lot if it is deemed unacceptable for sale.
In the event that an inspector is uncertain of a defect, he should seek a second opinion from an expert.
Sorting may be appropriate to remove defective cans but this should be decided at the "retention" stage by a person with experience in the evaluation of defective cans. IT IS MOST IMPORTANT THAT SAMPLING INSPECTION OF LOTS OF CANNED FOOD FOR THE PRESENCE OF VISUAL DEFECTS IS NOT THE ONLY BASIS FOR JUDGING PRODUCT TO BE FIT FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION
applies to anyone who is charged with the responsibility to inspect a lot of canned foods for container defects and is not confined to those from regulatory agencies.
The number of sample units taken should be recorded.
It is important to remember that the individual cans which have unacceptable defects may represent a health hazard and proper care should be exercised in handling, shipping or disposing of such cans. All defective cans should remain under control until destroyed.
The person marketing the food should be able to justify the claims made.
The use of these terms should be consistent with the prohibitions set out in Section 3. (iv) Religious or Ritual Preparation (e.g. Halal, Kosher) of a food may be claimed provided that the food conforms to the requirements of the appropriate religious or ritual authorities (see also the General Guidelines for the Use of the Term Halal, CAC/GL 24-1997). (v) Claims that a food has special characteristics when all such foods have the same characteristics, if this fact is apparent in the claim. (vi) Claims which highlight the absence or non-addition of particular substances to food may be used provided that they are not misleading and provided that the substance: (a) is not subject to specific requirements in any Codex Standard or Guideline; (b) is one which consumers would normally expect to find in the food; (c) has not been substituted by another giving the food equivalent characteristics unless the nature of the substitution is clearly stated with equal prominence; and (d) is one whose presence or addition is permitted in the food. (vii) Claims which highlight the absence or non-addition of one or more nutrients should be regarded as nutrition claims and therefore should invoke mandatory nutrient declaration in accordance with the Codex Guidelines on Nutrition Labelling.
This Code addresses essential hygienic conditions that should be taken into consideration when setting street food control measures.
This Code has been intended for use by the Asian countries to ensure the overall safety and hygiene of street vended foods.
Relevant authority should issue or renew the registration of any street food vendor who complies with all the requirements of the code of hygienic practice established by the relevant authority.
All those involved in street food vending during conduct of business should observe the following:
Consumers should report to the concerned authorities about unhygienic behaviour of any vendor, if noted.
The authorities should :  Monitor the hygienic status of street foods being sold.  Monitor the environmental condition, water safety, garbage disposal, etc.  Generate awareness, motivate and train food vendors and also customers regularly.  Involve suitable and experienced experts and voluntary agencies in managing awareness generation, motivation and training of vendors and customers.
There should be appropriate hand washing facilities with clean water, soap and other cleaning agents and the facilities provided should be kept clean and hygienic.
 Have appropriate drainage system for waste disposal.
The stalls and work surfaces should be kept in an adequate state of repair so as not to contaminate the food as a result of chipping surfaces, loose nails or breakages.
Vendors should be made aware of hygienic use and storage of water and ice.
Contamination of food with pest control materials such as pesticides and with fuel, detergents etc . should be prevented.
Liquid waste like waste water should be drained immediately into drains or sewers and not allowed to accumulate.
Food should be wrapped in clean and suitable packaging that can prevent contamination.
If this is not possible, knives and cutting boards should be washed after every use.
After handling such items, hands should be thoroughly washed before handling food.
Consumers should be informed of their responsibility of not contaminating street food vending areas.
It is important that FBOs are able to identify the allergenic nature of the foods, including ingredients, and processing aids they handle and take steps to manage any potential presence of undeclared allergens.
The management tools and guidance in this Code are a proactive approach for effectively managing allergens in food production, preparation and service and reducing risk for consumers, rather than a reactive response once a food safety hazard has been detected in a food.
The document has been structured to outline the principles of food allergen management which apply broadly to food business operators, as well as identify those which should be specifically applied to retail and food service sectors.
Where the introduction of an allergen may adversely affect the allergen profile of food at later stages of the food chain, primary production should be managed in a way that reduces the likelihood of introducing such allergens.
Where the adventitious presence of an allergen needs to be managed to ensure the allergen profile of the final food (e.g. gluten free), particular crop measures may be needed to remove, to the extent practicable, the physical remains of previous crops prior to re-planting.
During growing, prevent or minimise the potential for maintenance machinery (e.g. used for weeding) to contain other plant material which could result in allergen cross-contact.
Materials or containers used to lay, hang or bag commodities should be cleaned to remove allergenic residue.
FBOs should consider having areas to store allergenic ingredients separately from other allergens, as well as separate them from non-allergenic ingredients or foods.
Effective cleaning procedures, such as those outlined in Section 6, are also important in managing allergen cross-contact.
Manufacturers should consider providing appropriate barriers (e.g. walls, partitions, curtains) or adequate separation (e.g. spacing) between lines, when necessary, to prevent or minimise allergen cross-contact when foods with different allergen profiles are processed at the same time.
Manufacturers should eliminate cross-over points or provide a means to contain or shield food (e.g. closed pipes, enclosed or covered conveyors) to prevent food spilling from one line to another.
Alternatively, equipment should be cleaned when switching between foods with different allergen profiles (see Section 6.1).
FBOs should also consider, based on the risk to consumers with food allergies, facilities to enable change of protective clothing, especially when personnel are moving from particular areas within the manufacturing facility such as those handling powdered allergens.
Welds should be smooth, seals and hoses should not contain cracks, and “dead ends” in pipework or other areas where pockets of foods containing allergens can accumulate should be eliminated and where elimination is not possible, should be adequately cleaned.
Retail and food service operators should use equipment, tools, utensils and containers (other than single-use containers and packaging) that have been designed and constructed to ensure that allergens can be easily and effectively removed during cleaning.
The unintentional presence of allergens in food is prevented or minimised by taking preventive measures through GHPs and HACCP-based controls at appropriate stages in the operation.
Retail and food service operators should also manage menus, including in-store and on websites, if they contain allergen information, to assure content is current and matches the food product.
Care should be taken not to generate aerosols with high pressure washers, or to re-suspend dust using compressed air hoses.
Manufacturers should implement a policy for rework to be added back to the same product whenever feasible.
If it is not possible to re-label such food, they should have a procedure to destroy the food.
Personnel handling product at display and consumer purchase, as well as servers in restaurants and other food service operations, should be knowledgeable about the allergens in products; alternatively, the personnel should know how to obtain the information about the allergens in products rapidly - especially when the food does not contain labelling that identifies the allergens.
Preparation processes should be designed to prevent or minimise the potential for allergen cross-contact during food preparation, e.g. separate equipment and utensils that are used for foods with different allergen profiles, dedicate utensils/equipment for allergen-containing products, or clean equipment, utensils and preparation surfaces thoroughly between uses for foods with different allergen profiles.
FBOs should implement a policy for rework to only be added back to the same product whenever feasible.
They should implement procedures to segregate, and re-package or re-label products, or destroy food products that have been labelled incorrectly.
Regular review of ingredients, recipes, and labels, to ensure accuracy of allergen information should also be undertaken.
Allergen information on menus and websites should also be updated.
When this is not feasible, ingredients that contain allergens should be stored below those that do not contain allergens to prevent or minimise the opportunity for allergen cross -contact in the event of a spill or leak.
Retail and food service operators should store allergen-containing ingredients in a manner to prevent or minimise the potential for allergen cross-contact e.g. store allergen-containing ingredients below those that do not contain allergens.
To avoid allergen labelling errors, there should be a procedure for destroying old packaging and labels (and to maintain electronic document control of old labels) when recipes/formulations have been changed.
FBO managers and supervisors need to have enough knowledge and understanding of allergen control principles and practices to be able to judge the potential for allergen cross-contact and determine the need for new or revised procedures to prevent or minimise the presence of undeclared allergens or the need to take corrective action when allergen control procedures are not properly implemented.
Procedures and processes should be in place that facilitate a one - step-back and one-step-forward traceability review in the case of a food allergen incident (e.g. an allergic reaction to an undeclared allergen).
Action should always be taken in a timely manner to ensure further incidents do not occur, and public health and safety are protected.
For example, freshly prepared cleaning solutions should be used rather than reusing cleaning solutions that have been used for foods with different allergen profiles to prevent recontamination of surfaces with allergenic food residues.
For example, freshly prepared cleaning solutions should be used rather than reusing cleaning solutions that have been used for foods with different allergen profiles to prevent the recontamination of surfaces with allergenic food residues.
Cleaning processes should be verified through visual observation (checking that equipment is visibly clean) and, where feasible and appropriate , through an analytical testing program (refer to Section 6.5 of this Code).
Retail and food service operators should develop allergen clean up procedures for the food service preparation, storage and presentation areas, to be followed in the event of spills involving allergen-containing foods.
It is important for FBOs to make pest control service providers aware of concerns about the use of food allergens and potential for allergen cross-contact.
FBOs should place waste materials that contain food allergens in covered bins, totes, or containers that are identified as holding waste and handled in a manner to prevent or minimise the potential for allergen cross-contact.
Where it is not feasible to assign one individual to prepare an allergenic food (e.g. deveining prawns/shrimp), ensure that the individual's hands are thoroughly cleaned; that, if using gloves, the individual changes gloves; and, when appropriate, the individual changes outer clothing, before handling another food with a different allergen profile.
PRINCIPLE: Foods containing allergens should be managed during transportation so that allergen cross-contact is prevented.
The transporter/haulier should have procedures in place to ensure the integrity of the items they are transporting.
The transporter/ haulier should demonstrate a clear understanding of the food they carry and ensure personnel can identify and understand potential allergen cross-contact situations.
The method of cleaning adopted should be appropriate to the type of commodity and type of allergen to be loaded in the unit.
The General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) applies.
The General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) lists the foods and ingredients known to cause hypersensitivity that “shall always be declared” on the label.
This should ensure that those with allergies can avoid allergenic foods and ingredients.
Manufacturers should have procedures in place to ensure that food is labelled appropriately, as per Section 9.3.
Training programs should include, as appropriate to the person’s duties: general allergen awareness, including the serious nature and possible health consequences of the unintended or undeclared presence of allergens in products from a consumer perspective; awareness of the likelihood of allergen cross-contact identified at each stage of the food supply chain, and the preventive measures and documentation procedures applicable in the food business; GHPs, for example, appropriate clothing, hand washing, and minimizing hand contact with foods to prevent or minimise allergen cross-contact; hygienic design of facilities and equipment to prevent or minimise allergen cross-contact; cleaning of premises, equipment and tools, including clear between-product cleaning instructions, and its importance in preventing or minimising allergen cross-contact; handling of rework materials to prevent or minimise unintended allergens from being incorporated into a food; waste management, for example how waste should be handled to prevent or minimise allergen cross-contact; situations where potential allergen cross-contact can occur between products, production lines or equipment, and prevention measures; procedures for corrective actions when allergen cross-contact or labelling errors are suspected; procedures for managing people traffic patterns around the site to prevent or minimise allergen transfer from one area to another, for example people changing production line or site, movement to the canteen/break room and of visitors; equipment movement around the site, for example, maintenance tools, carts, food trays, etc. to prevent or minimise allergen transfer from one area to another; labelling and the awareness of allergen presence in raw materials, semi-finished goods and finished products; and sources of allergen information, e.g. supplier specifications, supplier audit records.
This standard applies to cream and prepared creams for direct consumption or further processing as defined in Section 2 of this standard.
When cream is intended for use by the final consumer the cream should have been prepared in a way that facilitates the whipping process.
Milk fat: Minimum 10% (w/w) Compositional modification below the minimum specified above for milk fat is not considered to be in compliance with the Section 4.3.3 of the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999).
Stabilizers and thickeners, including modified starches may be used singly or in combination, in compliance with the definitions for milk products and only to the extent that they are functionally necessary, taking into account any use of gelatine and starch as provided for in Section 3.2.
When reference is made in the labelling to the type of heat treatment(s) applied, the definitions established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission shall apply.
It should be stressed that this method should be utilized when refrigeration of the raw milk is not feasible.
Pasteurisation of the milk will ensure a complete removal of any residual concentrations of the active oxidation products.
The practical use of the method consequently requires addition of some thiocyanate to ensure that a level necessary to achieve the desired effect, is present in the milk.
The milk is then stirred for another 2–3 minutes to ensure that the sodium percarbonate is completely dissolved and the hydrogen peroxide is evenly distributed in the milk.
These centres must be equipped with proper facilities for cleaning and sanitising the vessels used to hold and transport milk.
They should be given appropriate training, including training in general milk hygiene, to enable them fulfil this in a correct way.
This dairy should set up appropriate control methods (see Section 5) to monitor usage of the method, raw milk quality and quality of the milk prior to processing.
The technical specifications of the thiocyanate and sodium percarbonate which should be used are stated in Appendices I and II.
The concentration of thiocyanate is then determined by comparison with standard solutions of known thiocyanate concentration, e.g. 10, 15, 20 and 30 µg/ml of thiocyanate.
* 2M HNO3 is obtained by diluting 138.5 ml 65% HNO3 to 1 000 ml with distilled water.
Prepackaged milk, milk products and composite milk products shall be labelled in accordance with Section 4 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), except to the extent otherwise expressly provided in a specific Codex standard or in Section 4 of this Standard.
Pre-packaged milk, milk products and composite milk products shall be labelled in accordance with Section 4 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), except to the extent otherwise expressly provided in a specific Codex standard or in Section 4 of this Standard.
Foods shall be described or presented in such a manner as to ensure the correct use of dairy terms intended for milk and milk products, to protect consumers from being confused or misled and to ensure fair practices in the food trade.
In this case the protein content shall be within the limits of natural variation within that country; 6 the adjustment has been performed according to methods permitted by the legislation of the country of retail sale, and only by the addition and/or withdrawal of milk constituents, without altering the whey protein to casein ratio; and 6 the adjustment is declared in accordance with Section 4.2.2 of this standard.
This Standard determines the requirements and characteristics that shall be present in mixed zaatar intended for direct human consumption.
The classification of mixed zaatar shall be as shown in Section 2.2.
It shall consist of at least 40% raw broadleaf zaatar mixed exclusively with sesame seeds and sumac husk, with the possibility of adding salt to a maximum level of 4%.
It shall consist of at least 30% raw zaatar or raw broadleaf zaatar mixed with sesame seeds and sumac husk, with the possibility of adding grains, nuts, spices and condiments, as well as salt to a maximum level of 4%.
 The product should be stored in a cool and dry place.
It is recommended that the products covered by this Standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969) and other relevant Codex texts such as the Code of Hygienic Practice for Low-Moisture Foods (CXC 75-2015).
The name of the product shall be “mixed zaatar”.
The classification shall be indicated according to Section 2.2 next to the product name.
A declaration of the presence of binders and of edible offal and a declaration indicating the species of animal from which the meat, poultry meat or a combination of these is derived shall be given in connection with the name of the product if their omission would mislead the consumer.
The moisture content shall be sufficiently low as to ensure microbiological stability under the recommended conditions of storage.
The residual fat content shall be compatible with Good Manufacturing Practice.
The processing aids used in products conforming to this Standard should be consistent with the Guidelines on Substances used as Processing Aids (CXG 75-2010). – Acidity Regulators – Antifoam Agents – Firming Agents – Enzyme Preparations – Extraction Solvents – Antidusting Agents – Flour Treatment Agents – Viscosity Control Agents
VPP shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
6.1 It is recommended that the products covered by the provisions of this Standard be prepared in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969). 6.2 To the extent possible in Good Manufacturing Practice, the products shall be free from objectionable matter. 6.3 When tested by appropriate methods of sampling and examination, the product: (a) shall be free of micro-organisms which may represent a hazard to health; (b) shall not contain any substances originating from micro-organisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; and (c) shall not contain any other poisonous substances in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
VPP shall be packed in suitable hygienic containers which will maintain the product during storage and transport in a dry and sanitary condition.
The provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) shall apply.
(a) shall be free of micro-organisms which may represent a hazard to health; (b) shall not contain any substances originating from micro-organisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; and (c) shall not contain any other poisonous substances in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
A complete list of ingredients shall be declared on the label in descending order of proportion except that in the case of added vitamins and added minerals, these ingredients shall be arranged as separate groups for vitamins and minerals, respectively, and within these groups the vitamins and minerals need not be listed in descending order of proportion.
The blank is to be filled with the name of the specific source of the vegetable protein, e.g. groundnut, cottonseed, rapeseed .
5.3 When tested by appropriate methods of sampling and examination, the product: – shall be free from micro-organisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; – shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and – shall not contain any substance originating from micro-organisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
3.1.3 Sorghum flour shall be free from filth (impurities of animal origin, including dead insects) in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Sorghum flour shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Sorghum flour shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC) for this commodity.
Sorghum flour shall comply with those maximum mycotoxin limits established by the CAC for this commodity.
The tannin content of sorghum flour shall not exceed 0.3 percent on a dry matter basis.
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “sorghum flour”.
Refer to section 8 COLOUR RANGE: 18 to 30 units Refer to Section 8 PARTICLE SIZE (GRANULARITY) Min: 100% of flour shall pass through a sieve the dimensions of the mesh being diameter of 0.5 mm for 1fine2 flour and a diameter of 1 mm for medium flour Refer to Section 8
As far as possible, importing countries should minimise restrictions on the disclosure to exporting countries of information on rejected foods.
If such foods are refused entry because of evidence that they come from such an establishment is lacking or incomplete, this should be stated.
Information about the decision to refuse importation should be provided including:
If available, the following information should be provided:
Information on the following should be provided:
The following information should be provided by countries in relation to rejections of imported food, as available and appropriate to the circumstances.
– Authorities in other likely destination countries notified – Other
Subject to the provisions of this standard, standards for individual varieties of cheese, or groups of varieties of cheese, may contain provisions which are more specific than those in this standard and in these cases, those specific provisions shall apply.
Acidity regulators, colours and preservatives used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) in food category 01.6.2.1 (Ripened cheese, includes rind) and only certain acidity regulators, anticaking agents, colours and preservatives in Table 3 are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this standard.
Processing aids used in products conforming to this standard should be consistent with the Guidelines on Substances used as Processing Aids (CXG 75-2010).
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.7.1 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the date of minimum durability need not be declared in the labelling of firm, hard and extra hard cheese which are not mould/soft-ripened and not intended to be purchased as such by the final consumer: in such cases the date of manufacture shall be declared.
2 – A layer, mostly wax, paraffin or a plastic, which normally is impermeable to moisture, to protect the cheese after ripening against microorganisms and against physical damage during retail handling and, in some cases to contribute to the presentation of the cheese.
National authorities should support research on methods and techniques to prevent fungal contamination in the orchard and during the harvesting, processing and storage of dried
– Combine this information with regional risk factors including meteorological data, cultural practices and propose adapted risk management measures.
Ensure training of producers with regards to: – Risk of mould and mycotoxins. – Conditions favouring aflatoxigenic fungi and period of infection. – Knowledge of preventive measures to be applied in fig orchards. – Pest control techniques.
Besides these, all applications should be documented.
Water used for irrigation and other purposes (e.g. preparation of pesticide sprays) should be of suitable quality, according to the legislation of each country and/or country of import, for the intended use.
Materials remaining from the previous crops and foreign materials should be cleaned and if it is needed the field can be fallowed in the following few years.
To make the removal of caprifigs easier, it is recommended to place caprifigs in nets or bags.
Staff who conduct the harvesting or work in storage rooms should be trained in this respect to ensure that these criteria are followed.
The containers should be strong enough to withstand all handling without breaking or puncturing, and tightly sealed to prevent any access of dust, fungal spores, insects or other foreign material.
48. Dried fig lots entering into the processing plant must be sampled and analyzed as an initial screening for quality moisture content and ratio of bright greenish yellow fluorescent
Preventive measures are essentially carried out in fig orchards and precautions or treatments undertaken at the processing stage are solely corrective measures to prevent any aflatoxin formation.
Chocolate and chocolate products shall be prepared from cocoa and cocoa materials with sugars and may contain sweeteners, milk products, flavouring substances and other food ingredients.
Couverture Chocolate shall contain, on a dry matter basis, not less than 35% total cocoa solids of which not less than 31% shall be cocoa butter and not less than 2.5% of fat-free cocoa solids.
Milk Chocolate Couverture shall contain, on a dry matter basis, not less than 25% cocoa solids (including a minimum of 2.5% non-fat cocoa solids) and not less than 14% milk solids (including a minimum of 3.5% milk fat) and a total fat of not less than 31%.
Chocolate para mesa shall contain, on a dry matter basis, not less than 20% total cocoa solids (including a minimum of 11% cocoa butter and a minimum of 9% fat-free cocoa solids).
Semi-bitter Chocolate para mesa shall contain, on a dry matter basis, not less than 30% total cocoa solids (including a minimum of 15% cocoa butter and a minimum of 14% fat -free cocoa solids).
Bitter Chocolate para mesa shall contain, on a dry matter basis, not less than 40% total cocoa solid (including a minimum of 22% cocoa butter and a minimum of 18% fat-free cocoa solids).
The product shall consist of either filled chocolate or a single or combination of the chocolates as defined under Section 2.1, with exception of chocolate a la taza, chocolate familiar a la taza and products defined in section 2.1.7.4 (chocolate para mesa).
3.3 PROCESSING AIDS MAXIMUM LEVEL Hexane (62ºC - 82ºC) 1 mg/kg Calculated on a fat content basis The processing aids used in products conforming to this standard should be consistent with the Guidelines on Substances used as Processing Aids (CXG 75-2010)
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the following declarations shall be made:
An appropriate statement shall inform the consumer about the nature of the centre.
Products in a single mouthful size described under Section 2.2.3 of this standard shall be designated “ A Chocolate” or “Praline”.
In that case, there shall be a single list of ingredients for all the products in the assortment or alternatively lists of ingredients by products.
Ingredients, which are especially aromatic and characterize the product shall form part of the name of the product (e.g. Mocca Chocolate).
For the purpose of this declaration, the percentages declared shall be made on the chocolate part of the product after the deduction of the other permitted edible foodstuffs.
Documentation identifying the type of commercial blends of non -cocoa butter vegetable fats used must be made available upon request by competent authorities.
Detecting sterol breakdown products in refined vegetable fats added to chocolate by method AOCS Ce 10/02 (02).
This standard applies to fermented milks, that is Fermented Milk including, Heat Treated Fermented Milks, Concentrated Fermented Milks and composite milk products based on these products, for direct consumption or further processing in conformity with the definitions in Section 2 of this Standard.
Concentrated Fermented Milks includes traditional products such as Stragis to (strained yoghurt), Labneh, Ymer and Ylette.
The non-dairy ingredients can be mixed in prior to/or after fermentation.
The milk used in the manufacture of the products covered by this Standard shall comply with the Maximum Levels for contaminants and toxins specified for milk by the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Foods and Feeds (CXS 193-1995) and with the maximum residue limits for veterinary drug residues and pesticides established for milk by the CAC.
The development and condition of the aubergines must be such as to enable them: • to withstand transportation and handling; and • to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
The aubergines must be sufficiently developed without the flesh being fibrous or woody and without hard seeds.
Uniformity in size range is compulsory only for Extra Class, but not for the aubergines with a diameter equal or below 30mm.
They must be free of defects, with the exception of slight superficial defects, provided they do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package.
Aubergines shall be pa cked in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
