Fish liver oils except of deepsea shark liver oil (Sections 2.3 and 2.4) shall comply with following: Vitamin A ≥ 40 µg of retinol equivalents/ml of oil Vitamin D ≥ 1.0 µg/ml Losses during processing may be restored (see Section 2.4. of General Principles for the Addition of Essential Nutrients to Foods [CXG 9-1987])2 by the addition of: Vitamin A and its esters Vitamin D Maximum levels for vitamins A and D should be in accordance with the needs of each individual country including, where appropriate, the prohibition of the use of particular vitamins.
The requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) and of the Guidelines on Nutrition Labelling (CXG 2-1985) apply to this standard.
For salmon oil , the label shall specify the source of the raw material (wild or farmed).
For crude fish oils and crude fish liver oils , the label shall indicate that these oils are intended for human consumption only after they have undergone further processing.
For fish liver oils (Sections 2.3 and 2.4) the content in vitamin A and vitamin D, naturally present or restored, shall be given if required by country of retail sale. For all fish oils covered by this standard the content of EPA and DHA shall be given if required by country of retail sale.
The stalk end of the root should have a clean cut between 1 cm and 2.5 cm in length in case of varieties that have distinct stalk.
Each package must bear the following particulars, in letters grouped on the same side, legib ly and indelibly marked, and visible from the outside, or in the documents accompanying the shipment.
Each package shall be labelled as to the na me of the produce and type (bitter) and may be labelled as to the name of the variety.
A statement indicating the following is required: - cassava must not be eaten raw; - cassava shall be peeled, de-pithed, cut into pieces, rinsed and fully cooked before consumption; and - cooking or rinsing water must not be consumed or used for other food preparation purposes.
The name of the product shall include, as appropriate, the designation: - "with skin" - "in/with natural juice" - "X added" applying to gelatine, agar, alginates or carrageenan - "smoked" - "smoking agent added". A declaration that accurately describes the method of preparation, processing or presentation shall be given so as to appear simultaneously visible with the name of the product if its omission would mislead the consumer.
This standard (formerly Codex Stan A -4-1971) applies to sweetened condensed milk, intended for direct consumption or further processing, in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this standard.
The milk solids and milk solids-not-fat content includes water of crystallization of the lactose.
The name of the food shall be: Sweetened condensed milk According to the composition specified in Section 3 Sweetened condensed skimmed milk Sweetened condensed partly skimmed milk Sweetened condensed high-fat milk Sweetened condensed partly skimmed milk may be designated “sweetened condensed semi-skimmed milk” if the milkfat content is 4.0–4.5 percent and the minimum milk solids is 28 percent m/m.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the ginger must be: ­ whole; ­ sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; ­ clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; ­ practically free of damage caused by pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; ­ free of abnormal external moisture, and properly dried if washed, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; ­ free of any foreign smell and/or taste; ­ firm; ­ free of abrasions, provided light abrasions which have been dried properly are not regarded as a defect; ­ sufficiently dry for the intended use; skin, stems and cuts due to harvesting must be fully dried.
The roots must be cleaned, well shaped and free of defects, with the exception of very slight superficial defects, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package.
6.2.4 Commercial Identification ­ Class; ­ Size (size code or minimum and maximum weight in grams); ­ Number of units (optional); ­ Net weight (optional). 6.2.5 Official Inspection Mark (optional)
Ginger shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Recommended International Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44-1995).
Each package must be ar the following particulars, in letters grouped on the same side, legibly and indelibly marked, and visible from the outside, or in the documents accompanying the shipment.
Pack ages must be free of all foreign matter and smell.
Depending on the type, appropriate ingredients are added in order to ensure preservation and quality of the product; (c) processed in an appropriate manner, before or after being hermetically sealed in a container, so as to ensure the quality and safety as well as to prevent spoilage; and/or (d) packed with or without a suitable liquid packing medium (e.g. oil, brine or acidic media such as vinegar) as specified in Section 3.1.2, with ingredients appropriate to the type and variety of pickled product, to ensure an equilibrium pH of less than 4.6.
The percentage of oil in the product shall not be less than ten percent by weight.
The percentage of salt in the covering liquid or the acidity of the media shall be sufficient to ensure the keeping quality and proper preservation of the product.
The product should be practically free from defects as defined in Section 3.2.
The drained weight of the product should be not less than the following percentages, calculated on the basis of the weight of distilled water at 20 oC which the sealed container will hold when completely filled.ii (a) Whole and halves style should not be less than 40 percent of the net weight; (b) Pieces style and other styles should not be less than 50 percent of the net weight (except for pickled red cabbage should not be less than 45 percent of the net weight).
The products covered by the provisions of this standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).11 In addition, the following specific provisions apply:
For checking compliance with this Standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999)13 relevant to the provisions in this standard shall be used.
For non-metallic rigid containers such as glass jars, the basis for the determination should be calculated on the weight of distilled water at 20 C which the sealed container will hold when completely filled less 20 ml.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).12
In addition to the General Standard for Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) the following apply:
Maximum Level Hexane (62 ºC – 82 ºC) 1 mg/kg excluding press cocoa butter The processing aids used in products conforming to this Standard should be consistent with the Guidelines on Substances used as Processing Aids (CXG 75-2010).
The product shall be “ Cocoa Butter” except that the name “ Press Cocoa Butter” may be used for products in conformity with the description for this product given in Section 2.1.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021)
These guidelines build on general food hygiene provisions already established in the Codex system and propose potential control measures specific for STEC strains in raw beef, fresh leafy vegetables, raw milk and raw milk cheeses, and sprouts.
This guidance focuses on control of STEC during raw milk production (cow, buffalo, goat, camel, yak and sheep), raw milk cheese making, storage, and distribution to consumers.
Raw beef : Skeletal muscle meat from slaughtered cattle, including primal cuts, iii sub-primal cuts, and trimmings.
For application of control measures in a specific country or an establishment, a complete and comprehensive flow diagram should be drawn up for each situation.
Implementation involves giving effect to the selected control measure(s), development of an implementation plan, communication of the decision on control measure(s), ensuring a regulatory framework and infrastructure for implementation exists, and a monitoring and evaluation process to assess whether the control measure(s) have been properly implemented (Section 7 of the Principles and Guidelines for the Conduct of Microbiological Risk Management (MRM) [CXG 63-2007]).
In line with the Code of Hygienic Practice for Milk and Milk Products (CXC 57-2004)7 (Section 9.1), raw milk products should be labelled to indicate they are made from raw milk according to national requirements in the country of retail sale.
If product is removed from the original package for further processing or re-portioning, appropriate good hygienic practices should be observed to avoid recontamination with STEC.
Since not all tenderized products are readily distinguishable from non-tenderized products, labelling to state that the product is tenderized, along with validated cooking instructions, should be included to provide consumers and food service workers the essential information to safely prepare the product.
The documented control measures should describe the activities applied, including any sampling procedures, specified targets (e.g. performance objectives or performance criteria) set for STEC, FBO verification activities, and corrective actions.
Microbiol ogical testing programmes, or molecular testing programmes, should be established to verify the effectiveness of control measures for STEC.
Record-keeping is important to facilitate verification and for traceability purposes.
The competent authority should verify that all regulatory control measures implemented by FBOs comply with regulatory requirements, as appropriate, for control of STEC.
The consumer has an important role in the prevention of foodborne illness from STEC during the manipulation of raw beef at home and should be made aware of the proper cooking and handling of raw beef.
Wherever possible, such information should be combined with human health surveillance data and foodborne illness source attribution data to validate risk-based control measures and verify progress towards risk-reduction goals.
In general, more stringent corrective actions would be applied in response to the presence of high priority STEC strains.
The surveillance and application of controls for the proper functioning of the STEC control systems need to ensure that the food chain is sufficiently safe for human health.
Consequently, it will be up to competent authorities and each operator (farmer, dairy, or FBO) to define and implement appropriate risk-based monitoring and control measures, considering relevant scientific and technical information.
To be effective, the component strains in the product should be consistent and the products should be administered at the recommended CFU/g doses in feed.
The use of vaccines should consider feasibility of application regimes to ensure their efficacy at individual and herd level.
Reduce the potential for STEC transmission through consumption of contaminated feed and water by the following:
When feasible, at lairage cattle should not be comingled with other herds/lots to prevent cross-contamination between herds/lots.
Measures should be taken to prevent tail flapping and its contact to the carcass when hide pullers are used.
The use of separate clean knives for dehiding and rectum removal is recommended to avoid cross-contamination of the rest of the carcass.
If the gastrointestinal tract has been punctured causing a major contamination, the carcass should be identified and additional procedures to avoid cross-contamination of other carcasses should be performed, such as separating the carcass immediately from the others.
The description of control measures may also include the procedures for monitoring their implementation to ensure the control measures are carried out as intended.
Thus, controlling the humidity of the chilling process can impact STEC levels on the carcass.
Manufacturers of tenderized beef should consider supplier assurances that require the incoming meat to be produced in accordance with good agricultural practices (GAPs) and GHPs to reduce STEC or, in the absence of these assurances, treat the beef prior to mechanical tenderization.
During packaging and storage, temperature control should minimize the potential for bacterial growth; STEC can only replicate at temperatures of 7 °C and above.
Refer to the general section of these guidelines.
Verification of other control measures, (e.g. concentration of organic acid, temperature of a steam/vacuum or hot water treatment, etc.) should be routinely conducted in addition to appropriate microbiological testing.
In addition, it is important to limit water contamination for watering animals by adequate maintenance of water troughs.
Traders should indicate which classification option is chosen.
Moisture content 15% m/m max Lower moisture limits should be required for certain destinations in relation to the climate, duration of transport and storage.
Rice shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity.
When the product is packaged in sacks, these must be clean, sturdy, and strongly sewn or sealed.
In addition to requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the following specific provisions apply:
– shall be free from micro-organisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; – shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and – shall not contain any substance originating from micro -organisms, including fungi, in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
The alternative names given in parenthesis shall be used in accordance with local practice.
It is recommended that during storage, transportation, distribution and retail, the product be handled in accordance with the provisions in the Code of Practice for the Processing and Handling of Quick-Frozen Foods (CXC 8-1976).1
3.3.1 General requirements Quick-frozen raspberries shall be: (a) of good, reasonably uniform colour, characteristic of the variety;
The total soluble solids content of the liquid extracted from the thawed, comminuted sample shall be not more than 30 percent m/m nor less than 15 percent m/m expressed as sucrose, as determined by refractometer at 20  b0C.
Any sample unit that falls outside the limits for the soluble solids range specified in 3.2.1 and 3.2.2 shall be regarded as a "defective" provided that it does not exceed the limits of the range by more than five percent soluble solids.
Mineral impurities – not more than 0.05 percent m/m on a whole product basis (berries and packing medium, if any).
The sample unit for segregation and evaluating visual effects shall be 300 grammes of drained berry ingredient (see relevant Codex texts on methods of analysis and sampling).
In applying the lot acceptance procedure, a "defective" for "free-flowing" is treated individually and in addition to the allowance for other product characteristics.
In addition to the requirements of the General standard for the labelling of pre-packaged foods (CXS 1-1985)3 the following specific provisions apply:
Packaging used for quick-frozen raspberries shall: (a) protect the organoleptic and other quality characteristics of the product; (b) protect the product against microbiological and other contamination; (c) protect the product, as far as practicable, against dehydration, heat accumulation by radiation, and, where appropriate, leakage; (d) not pass on to the product any odour, taste; colour or other foreign characteristic, throughout the processing (where applicable) and distribution of the product up to the time of final sale.
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999)5 relevant to the provisions in this standard shall be used.
- shall be free from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; - shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and - shall not contain any substance originating from microorganisms in amount which may represent a hazard to health.
In the case of quick-frozen raspberries in bulk, the information required shall either be placed on the container or be given in accompanying documents, except that the name of the food accompanied by the words "quick-frozen" (the term "frozen" may be used in accordance with subsection 6.1.1 of this standard) and the name and address of the manufacturer or packer shall appear on the container.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021)4
Smoked fish, smoke-flavoured fish and smoke-dried fish shall be prepared from sound and wholesome fish, which may be fresh, chilled or frozen, and of a quality to be sold for human consumption after appropriate preparation.
All ingredients used shall be of food grade quality and conform to all applicable Codex standards.
In addition, wood or other plant material must be handled in a way to avoid contamination ( refer to the Code of Practice for the Reduction of Contamination of Food with Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAH) from Smoking and Direct Drying Processes (CXC 68-2009)).
Viability of nematodes , cestodes and trematodes shall be examined according to Section 8.10 and/or 8.11.
The products covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Foods and Feed (CXS 193-1995).
can be achieved by following the Code of Practice for the Reduction of Contamination of Food with Polycyclic Hydrocarbons (PAH) from Smoking and Direct Drying Processes (CXC 68-2009).
The products covered by the provisions of this Standard shall be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969) and other relevant Codex texts such as codes of practice and codes of hygienic practice, such as the Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products (CXC 52-2003).
The products shall comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
The ready to eat products shall comply with microbiological criteria for Listeria monocytogenes in ready-to-eat foods which was elaborated in the Annex II of the Guidelines on the Application of General Principles of Food Hygiene to the Control of Listeria Monocytogenes in Foods (CXG 61-2007).
The label shall declare storage and handling instructions appropriate for the product.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with procedures elaborated in Sections 8.4 through 8. 6 and the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CXG 31-1999)."
The net weight is determined as the weight of the product, exclusive of packaging material, interleaving material, etc.
Frozen samples of final products shall be thawed at refrigeration temperatures to maintain quality and safety.
The percentage salt (NaCl) in the aqueous phase can be determined by the following calculation: % salt aqueous phase = % salt x 100 % water + % salt % Moisture: AOAC, 952.08, Sec. 35.1.13, Solids (Total) in Seafood % Salt: AOAC, 937.09, Sec. 35.1.18, Salt (Sodium Chloride) in Seafood
Attribute sampling plan General Guidelines on Sampling (CXG 50-2004), Section 4.2, Table 10, using AQL6.5%.
Sampling plans by variables with unknown standard deviation (s -method) General Guidelines on Sampling (CXG 50-2004), Section 4.3, Table 14.
This standard applies to wheat flour for direct human consumption prepared from common wheat, Triticum aestivum L., or club wheat, Triticum compactum Host., or mixtures thereof, which is pre -packaged ready for sale to the consumer or destined for use in other food products. It does not apply: – to any product prepared from durum wheat, Triticum durum Desf., singly or in combination other wheat; – to whole meal, whole-wheat flour or semolina, farina milled from common wheat, Triticum aestivum L., or club wheat, Triticum compactum Host., or mixtures thereof; – to wheat flour destined for use as a brewing adjunct or for the manufacture of starch and/or gluten; – to wheat flour for non-food industrial use; or – flours whose protein content have been reduced or which have been submitted after the milling process to a special treatment other than drying or bleaching and/or to which have bee n added other ingredients than those mentioned under Section 3.2.2 and Section 4.
Wheat flour shall be free from filth (impurities of animal origin, including dead insects) in amo unts which may represent a hazard to human health.
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended methods of analysis and sampling (CXS 234-1999)4 relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
Wheat flour shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Wheat flour shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity.
Wheat flour shall comply with tho se maximum mycotoxin limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC) for this commodity.
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “wheat flour.”
Therefore, a comparative approach using the minimal effect doses was developed in order to estimate Margins of Exposure (MOEs) to provide guidance on human health risk.
These may involve developing Good Agricultural Practice, Good Animal Feeding Practice (see Code of Practice on Good Animal Feeding (CXC 54 -2004)), and Good Manufacturing Practice guidance and measures to effectively reduce dioxins and PCBs in feed, including:
Measures to reduce PCBs emission sources should be directed to minimizing releases from existing equipment (e.g. transformers, capacitors), prevention of accidents and better control of the disposal and destruction of PCBs containing oils and wastes.
Ensure environmentally sound waste management of liquids containing PCBs and equipment contaminated with PCBs having a PCB content above 0.005%, as soon as possible but no later than 2028.
Identify other articles containing more than 0.005% PCBs (e.g. cable-sheaths, cured caulk and painted objects) and manage them in an environmentally sound manner.
To reduce dioxin and PCB contamination in the air, national food authorities should consider recommending to their national authorities responsible for air pollution measures to restrict uncontrolled burning of wastes, including the burning of landfill sites or backyard burning, and the use of PCP treated wood for domestic heaters.
To reduce possible contamination of feed or food, agricultural land with unacceptable dioxin and PCB contamination due to local emission, accidents, or illegal disposal of contaminated materials should be identified.
National guidelines should be adhered to where applicable.
If necessary, the outdoor production in these areas should be restricted.
To reduce exposure to dioxins and PCBs, highly contaminated areas (e.g. lakes, rivers or contaminated marine catching areas) and relevant fish species should be identified and fishing in these areas should be controlled and, if necessary, restricted.
origin of feed and feed ingredients to ensure that producers and/or companies have certified production facilities, production processes and quality assurance programs (e.g. HACCP -like principles); accompanying documents confirming compliance with nationally -established guideline levels or maximum levels, if available, according to national requirements.
that may contain elevated dioxin and PCB levels should be monitored, as necessary, for contamination.
However, certain vegetable and animal oil refining by-products (e.g. fatty acid distillates and deodistillates) and spent products used in oil refining (e.g. bleaching clays) may contain increased levels of dioxins and PCBs and should be analysed, as necessary, if used for feed.
Feed, food and feed or food ingredients that are dried or subjected to heated air should be monitored as necessary to ensure that drying or heating processes do not result in elevated levels of dioxins and PCBs.
The purchaser should consider requiring a certificate from the manufacturer/supplier, confirming that the dried goods are produced applying Good Manufacturing Practice, particularly in the choice of the fuel used for drying or heating and are in compliance with nationally-established guideline levels or maximum levels, if available.
Such processed products should be monitored for dioxins and PCBs, as necessary, by the manufacturer.
If there is evidence of elevated contamination, such fractions should not be used in food or feed and should be treated as waste.
As assurance to the user that these substances do not contain minerals with elevated levels (e.g. exceeding nationally-established guideline levels or maximum levels, if available) of dioxins and PCBs, the distributor should provide appropriate certification to the user of such feed ingredients.
Such products should be monitored for dioxins and PCBs, as necessary.
These sites should be monitored as necessary for contamination before use for storage of feed and food.
Feed and food manufacturers should ensure that all ingredients in feed and food comply with nationally established guideline levels or maximum levels of dioxins and PCBs, if available.
In addition competent authorities should establish their own monitoring programs.
All relevant information on sampling, sample preparation and sample description (e.g. sampling period, geographic origin, fish species, fat content, size of fish) should be recorded.
For adequate time trend measurements, the limit of quantification of the method of analysis should be clearly below the mean of the present background ranges for the different matrices.
However, the cost of analysis remains an impediment to data collection thus research priority should be given to the development of less costly analytical methods for the analysis of dioxin and DL-PCBs.
Accredited laboratories should follow the ISO/IEC/17025 standard “General requirements for the competence of testing and calibration laboratories” or other equivalent standards.
Regular participation in interlaboratory studies or proficiency tests for the determination of dioxins and PCBs in the relevant feed and food matrices is highly recommended according to ISO /IEC/17025 standard.
5.3 When tested by appropriate methods of sampling and examination, the product: – shall be free from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; – shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and – shall not contain any substance originating from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
3.1.3 Whole maize meal shall be free from filth (impurities of animal origin, including dead insects) in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Whole maize (corn) meal shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Whole maize (corn) meal shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity.
Whole maize (corn) meal shall comply with those maximum mycotoxin limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity.
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “whole maize (corn) meal”.
Refer to Section 8 GRANULARITY 95% or more of the whole maize meal shall pass through a 1.70 mm sieve – and – 45% or more shall pass through a 0.71 mm sieve – and – 35% or less of the whole maize meal shall pass through a 0.212 mm sieve Refer to Section 8
Different requirements for the products covered by this standard may be laid down in group of products standards or in individual standards.
Wild fungi which are to be marketed or preserved, or used in the preparation of fungus products shall be carefully examined by an expert to determine whether there are any inedible fungi amongst them, and such inedible fungi shall be removed.
Fresh edible fungi shall be healthy, i.e. not spoiled, practically clean, firm, undamaged, free, as far as possible, from maggot damage and shall possess the flavour and taste appropriate for the species.
5.6 Products covered by this standard which are in the quick-frozen state should be prepared in accordance with the Code of Hygienic Practice for the Processing and Handling of Quick-Frozen Foods (CXC 8-1976).4 5.7 Products covered by this standard which do not fall within one of the categories at 5.4, 5.5 and 5.6 above, for example, fresh edible fungi, should be prepared in accordance with the relevant sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969).1
The drained weight of the product shall be not less than the following percentages, calculated on the basis of the weight of distilled water at 20 oC which the sealed container will hold: Container size Container size 0.5 l or less more than 0.5 l Regular packs ) Vinegar packs ) 50% m/m 53% m/m Wine packs )
In the case of a) Dried Fungi, and b) Fungus Grits and Fungus Powder, attention is directed to the need to prevent these products from absorbing moisture and being attacked by insects, particularly moths and mites.
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985),5 the following specific provisions apply:
The method of processing to which the product has been subjected, e.g. "dried", "sterilized" or "quick-frozen", shall be indicated on the label.
A complete list of ingredients shall be declared on the label in descending order of proportion except for dried fungi.
Post-harvest processing: processes (e.g. high pressure and mild heating) or treatments (e.g. freezing) intended to significantly reduce or limit but not necessarily completely eliminate V. parahaemolyticus and V. vulnificus while essentially retaining the sensory characteristics of live bivalve molluscs (Section 7.7 of the Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products (CAC/RCP 52-2003)).
Refer to Section 3.1 of the Recommended International Code of Practice -General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969), Section 7 of the Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products (CAC/RCP 52-2003) and Section 3.1 of the Guidelines on the Application of General Principles of Food Hygiene to the Control of Pathogenic Vibrio Species in Seafood.
The control measures described in Section III (Primary production) of Part I should be implemented to achieve at least an equivalent level of protection for bivalve molluscs to be consumed live or raw despite the fact that these bivalve molluscs are to be consumed after partial treatment.
Where feasible, the washing room for food equipment used in the finished product manufacturing should be physically segregated from the finished product processing area.
The chill room should be equipped with a calibrated thermometer.
Suitable and adequate facilities should be provided for storage and/or production of ice.
55. An adequate supply of clean water and/or potable water should be available for handling and washing of seafood to limit the load of pathogenic Vibrio spp.
Separate and adequate facilities should be provided to prevent contamination by offal and waste material.
The facility should be capable of controlling ambient temperature to ensure that product temperature during processing of raw seafood is maintained at a temperature of 10ºC or lower.
Competent authorities should ensure that the food business operator is able to verify the delivery of any partial treatment and additional control measures necessary to assure the safety of the product.
After partial heat treatment, growth of V. parahaemolyticus and V. vulnificus should be controlled.
The parameters (e.g. target pH, salt concentration, water activity) should be controlled, monitored and verified.
Control measures should be in place to avoid cross contamination between bivalve molluscs before partial treatment and after partial treatment.
However, the eviscerated cavity of fish intended for raw consumption (e.g. preparation of sashimi) should be thoroughly washed with potable running water.
After cooking and blanching, potable water should be used for cooling.
The food processing practices should be closely monitored and verified to ensure that pathogenic Vibrio spp. are controlled and/or reduced as intended.
83. Refer to Section 5.5.1 of the Recommended International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969) except cases specified within this Code where clean water could be used.
Refer to Section 5.6 of the Recommended International Code of Practice- General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969).
Refer to Section 5.7 of the Recommended International Code of Practice- General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969).
Refer to Section 5.8 of the Recommended International Code of Practice- General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969).
Refer to Section 6 of the Recommended International Code of Practice- General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969) and Section 3.4 of the Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products (CAC/RCP 52-2003).
Refer to Section 7 of the Recommended International Code of Practice- General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969) and Section 3.5 of the Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products (CAC/RCP 52-2003).
Transportation is an integral step in the food chain and temperature during this period should be as low as possible and should be controlled, monitored and recorded where appropriate.
Refer to Section 5.5.2 of the Recommended International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969).
Refer to Section 5.5.3 of the Recommended International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969).
In addition, where appropriate, labelling for bivalve molluscs should include advice on specific safe handling practices (e.g. time, temperature) and consumption.
Programs for consumer education should inform consumers of safe consumption practice and handling and preparation of bivalve molluscs aimed at avoiding food safety risk associated with V. parahaemolyticus and V. vulnificus in bivalve molluscs.
Programs for consumer education should inform consumers of safe consumption practice and handling and preparation of bivalve molluscs aimed at avoiding food safety risks associated with V. parahaemolyticus and V. vulnificus in bivalve molluscs.
Special consideration should be given to possible differences in prevalence of pathogenic Vibrio spp. in the harvesting areas and various fishing techniques.
Subpopulations with increased susceptibility should follow the advice below: ・ Avoid the consumption of raw or partially treated seafood; and ・ Cook seafood thoroughly before consumption.
These prerequisite programs, together with HA CCP, can provide a sound framework for the control of V. parahaemolyticus and V. vulnificus in bivalve molluscs.
Any measure or practice to significantly reduce or limit but not necessarily completely eliminate V. parahaemolyticus and V. vulnificus in bivalve molluscs should be adequately validated to assure that the control measures are effective and such validated control measures as practiced should be implemented under an HACCP system.
