A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements as set out in Section 2.4.1 through Section 2.4.5 (except extraneous plant material which is based on an average of the entire sample), shall be considered a “defective”.
A container that fails to meet the requirement for minimum fill (90 percent container capacity) of Section 6.1.1 shall be considered a “defective”.
The drained weight of the product packed with liquid packing medium shall be not less than the following percentages, calculated on the basis of the weight of distilled water at 20 6C which the sealed container will hold when completely filled: - not less than 300 ml of water capacity of the container 60% - less than 300 ml of water capacity of the container 55%
The style, as appropriate, shall be declared as a part of the name or in close proximity to the name: "Whole" "Brokens" "Sweetened" in the case of chestnut puree only "Unsweetened" If the product is produced in accordance with the other styles provision in Section 1.2.3, the label shall contain in close proximity to the name of the product such additional words or phrases that will avoid misleading or confusing the consumer.
This Standard applies to waters for drinking purposes other than Natural Mineral Waters, as defined in the Revised Codex Standard CXS 108-1981, that are prepackaged/bottled and are suitable for human consumption.
“Waters defined by origin”, whether they come from the underground or from the surface, defined under the present standard share the following characteristics: a) they originate from specific environmental resources without passing through a community water system; b) precautions have been taken within the vulnerability perimeters to avoid any pollution of, or external influence on, the chemical, microbiological and physical qualities of water at origin; c) collecting conditions which guarantee the original microbiological purity and essential elements of their chemical make-up at origin; d) from the microbiological standpoint, are constantly fit for human consumption at their source and are kept in that state with particular hygienic precautions until and while packaging in accordance with provisions of sections 3 and 4; e) are not subject to any modification or treatment other than those permitted under Section 3.1.1.
In addition to the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the following provisions shall apply:
To this effect, all packaged water shall comply with the health-related requirements of the most recent “Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality” published by the World Health Organization.
Any addition of minerals to water before packaging must comply with the provisions outlined in the present standard and, where applicable, with the provisions in the General Principles for the Addition of Essential Nutrients to Foods (CXG 9-1987).
It is recommended that all waters covered by the provisions of this Standard be collected, transported, stored, and if applicable treated, and packaged in accordance with the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1991) and in accordance with the Code of Hygienic Practice for Bottled/Packaged Drinking Waters (Other than Natural Mineral Waters) (CXC 48-2001).
The results of source inspection should be made available to the importing country upon request.
However, in establishing such labelling requirements, consideration should be given to ensuring that any product complying with this standard may be represented in a way that reflects its classification within the standard and that consumers are not misled.
In the case of blends or mixtures of waters from different environment resources, each resource shall be labelled.
Where required by the authorities having jurisdiction, the precise geographic location of the specific environmental resource and/or the source of a water defined by origin must be declared in the manner prescribed in the applicable legislation.
When prepared water is supplied by a public or private tap water distribution system and subsequently packaged/bottled, but has not undergone further treatment that would modify its original composition or to which carbon dioxide or fluoride have been added, the wording “From a public or private distribution system ” must appear on the label along with the name of the product on the principal display panel.
Where required by the authorities having jurisdiction, if a packaged/bottled water has been modified by a permitted treatment before packaging, the modification or the result of the treatment must be declared on the label in a manner prescribed in the applicable legislation.
Before processing, the fruit shall have been properly washed and peeled and the membrane, seeds and core and fibre strands originating from albedo or core, shall have been substantially removed from the sections.
The product shall have colour, flavour, odour and texture characteristic of the product.
Canned mandarin oranges in whole segment style may be designated according to size in the following manner: (a) Uniform single size (i) “Large” – 20 or less whole segments per 100 g of drained fruit. (ii) “Medium” – 21 to 35 whole segments per 100 g of drained fruit. (iii) “Small” – 36 or more whole segments per 100 g of drained fruit. (iv) Single sizes shall also meet the uniformity requirements of Section 3.2.5. (b) Mixed sizes – A mixture of two or more single sizes.
The liquid packing medium shall be reasonably clear except when it contains fruit juice in compliance with the General Standard for Fruit Juices and Nectars (CXS 247-2005).
Canned grapefruit with special ingredients shall have a flavour characteristic of that imparted by the grapefruit and the other substances used.
Whole segments shall be practically free from signs of disintegration.
For canned grapefruit, canned pummelo or canned sweet orange varieties only – in the style of whole sections or segments, not less than 50 percent by weight of drained fruit shall be in whole segments.
For canned grapefruit, canned mandarin oranges, canned sweet orange varieties and canned pummelo 6 a container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Sections 2.4 and 3.2 (except those based on sample averages), should be considered as a 4defective2.
(a) For canned grapefruit canned mandarin oranges, canned sweet orange varieties and canned pummelo: A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Sections 2.4 and 3.2 when the number of 4defectives2, as defined in Section 3.3, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an acceptable quality level (AQL) of 6.5. (b) For canned mandarin oranges: The lot must comply with requirements of Section 3.2.6(b) which are based on sample average.
For canned mandarin oranges (whole segment style 6 single sizes only) 6 in the 95 percent, by count, of units (excluding broken segments) that are most uniform in size, the weight of the largest unit shall be no more than twice the weight of the smallest unit.
5.2 The product covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
6.2 The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
(c) For canned mandarin oranges – the drained weight of the product shall be not less than 56 percent, calculated on the basis of the weight of distilled water at 20 °C which the sealed container will hold when completely filled.
Performance criteria of methods for analyte identification and confirmation are also addressed.
(b) Concentration range covered by the validation; (c) Matrices used in the validation ( representative commodity categories, e.g., similar agricultural products based on characteristics including moisture, fat, and sugar content, pH); (d) Protocol describing the equipment, reagents, detailed step -by-step procedure including permissible variations (e.g. “heat at 100 ± 5 °C for 30 ± 5 min”), calibration and quality procedures, special safety precautions required, and intended application and critical uncertainty requirements; (e) quantitative result of the expanded measurement uncertainty (MU) for the method should be calculated in the validation procedure and reported, if required.
To estimate rates of false positives and negatives during method validation, an adequate number of blanks per matrix [not from the same source] should be analysed along with spiked matrices at the analyte reporting level.
The following calibration procedures are recommended for the initial method validation: (a) determinations at five or more concentrations should be performed (consider multiple injections per concentration); (b) the reference standards should be evenly spaced over the concentration range of interest and the calibration range should encompass the entire concentration range likely to be encountered;
Ideally, the value of the intercept should be close to zero to reduce errors in calculating residue concentrations at low levels, although the calibration curve should not be forced through the origin without justification.
If solvent-only calibration is used, a measurement of matrix effects must be made to demonstrate equivalence of results by comparing responses of matrix-matched with solvent-only standards.
From the point of view of the analyst reviewing a year’s work, the analytical bias will be different every day and should act like a random variable with an associated precision, incorporating any stipulated conditions for the estimation of this precision.
Secondly, the test material used should be typical, in terms of matrix and (ideally) the state of comminution, of the materials likely to be encountered in real applications.
The initial validation should be conducted at the targeted limit of quantification (LOQ) or reporting limit of the method, and at least one other higher level, for example, 2-10x the targeted LOQ or the MRL.
In MRMs, the typical analytical goal is to set the LVL (and reporting level) at 0.01 mg/kg in diverse, yet representative commodities.
Use of element-specific detectors or different detection wavelengths or MS-based detectors which are better able to distinguish a particular compound or structure, combined with chromatographic separation, improves the selectivity of quantitative methods.
Care is therefore required when setting criteria for the precision and trueness of MRMs to ensure that quantification will not be affected by chemical interferences.
When the residue definition includes two or more analytes, the method should be validated for all analytes.
Recoveries >120% are likely to be attributable to a positive interference or bias that should be investigated.
Often radio-labelled incurred residues or standard reference materials are required to assess recoveries of incurred residues.
Regardless of what average recoveries are observed, recovery with low variability is desirable so that a reliable correction for recovery can be made to the final result, when required.
Correction functions should be established on the basis of appropriate statistical considerations, and documented, archived and made available to the client.
For this reason, all regulatory enforcement actions (above an MRL or for those with no MRL on that commodity) require confirmation of the result via re-extraction of a replicate test portion of the original sample and re-analysis, ideally using different sample preparation and/or analysis.
The Harmonized IUPAC Guidelines for Single-Laboratory Validation of Methods of Analysis were adopted by reference for Codex purposes with the following note to the title.
These conditions are: • both countries agree on using this guideline; • laboratories4 comply with quality assurance provisions and with the Codex Guidelines for the Assessment of the Competence of Testing Laboratories Involved in the Import and the Export of Food (CAC-GL 27), and the laboratories have been designated by their respective Competent Authorities in both the importing and exporting countries; • at least one representative sample 5 from the same food lot has been taken by the Competent Authority at import in accordance with established sampling plans and/or good sampling practices, where applicable; this sample has been split into three essentially identical parts for the purposes of primary analysis and for confirmatory analysis (reserve samples) 6; the split reserve samples should be kept in a satisfactory condition for the appropriate length of time;
See ANNEX to GUIDELINES FOR THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION BETWEEN COUNTRIES ON REJECTIONS OF IMPORTED FOOD (CAC/GL 25-1997): "Where imported food has been rejected on the basis of sampling and/or analysis in the importing country, details should be made available on request as to sampling and analytical methods and test results and the identity of the testing laboratory."
If the dispute still exists, the measures outlined in section 5 of this procedure, using arbitration by a third laboratory, should be applied.
The dispute shall be resolved within the shortest possibl e time, which should not adversely affect the quality of the commodity during storage, where appropriate.
In case a set of samples is involved, a different formulation for the critical difference should be used.
Natto shall be sticky and filamentous, substance must be visible when a bean in Natto is picked up.
There should be no visible foreign mattersi in the products.
The soybean products fermented with Bacillus spp. should comply with the requirements listed in Table 1.
Any products that fail to meet the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Sections 3.2 and 3.3, should be considered defective.
The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits (MRLs) for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The weight of the products covered by the provisions of this standard shall be indicated in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).
The products covered by the provisions of this standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).5
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999)7 relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).6
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the grapefruits must be: - whole; - sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; - practically free of damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste; - firm; - free of damage caused by low and/or high temperatures or frost; - practically free of bruising.
Grapefruits are classified in three classes defined below:
The development and condition of the grapefruits must be such as to enable them: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
Grapefruits shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
The grapefruits shall be presented under one of the following forms:
This form of presentation is mandatory for the “Extra” Class and optional for Classes I and II.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package should be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type.
- Class; - Size (size code or minimum and maximum diameter in millimetres); - Net weight (optional); - Size code (or, when fruit packed by count fall under two adjacent codes, size codes or minimum and maximum diameter in mm) and number of fruit, in the case of fruit arranged in layers in the package.
7.1 The produce covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995). 7.2 The produce covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The document describes the specific considerations for food hygiene and safety associated with all methods of primary production and processing of eggs and egg products, including the adequate measures for small-scale producers and processors.
Refer to the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969).
Work areas for raw and treated product should be separated via physical barriers.
Eggs should be maintained at an appropriate temperature, including avoiding fluctuations in temperatures that will result in condensation of water on the shell surface.
Where there are no legal requirements, such businesses should follow recommendations in industry-recognised guidelines or follow practices established as safe, where practicable.
Information to consumers should include advice on safe handling, storage and preparation of eggs.
Visitor movement should be controlled to minimize likelihood of transfer of pathogens from other sources.
With respect to food safety, records should be kept on: - Prevention and control of avian diseases with an impact on public health; - Identification and movement of birds and eggs; - Use of agricultural and pest control chemicals; - Nature and source of feed, feed ingredients and water; - Use of veterinary drugs/medicines; - Results of testing where testing is performed; - Health status of personnel; - Cleaning and disinfection; and - Traceability/product tracing and recall.
Processors and food manufacturers that use egg products should follow labelling instructions.
Where appropriate, advice should be made available to consumers on the safe handling, use, preparation and consumption of eggs.
In particular, measures to prevent disease could include:
Egg laying areas and establishments should, to the extent practicable, be designed, constructed, maintained and used in a manner that minimizes exposure of domesticated birds or their eggs to hazards and pests.
Egg collecting equipment should be maintained in proper working condition and this should be periodically verified.
Delivery procedures should be adequate for the hygienic handling of eggs.
The egg-laying establishment should be safe for the re-entry of new stock.
Storage conditions should be such that the potential for microbial contamination, the growth of microbial pathogens and the risk to human health is minimized.
Particular attention should be given to specific indicating control of pathogens such as Salmonella Enteritidis.
Access to surface water, where it introduces hazards, should be denied.
The owner should keep a record of relevant information concerning feed.
Records should include information on the date of application, the chemical used, the concentration, method and frequency of application, the purpose for using the chemical applications and where it was applied.
Eggs from different species of poultry and/or farm production systems (e.g. free range, barn and caged eggs) should be segregated as appropriate.
Personnel should be adequately instructed and/or trained to handle eggs and domesticated birds to ensure the use of good hygienic practices that will minimize the risk of egg or flock contamination.
Any person so affected should immediately report illness or symptoms of illness to the management.
Personnel should wash their hands before starting work that involves the handling of eggs, each time they return to handling areas after a break, immediately after using the toilet, and after handling anything which may contaminate eggs.
Facilities should: - Be located in close proximity to wherever eggs or domesticated birds are handled; - Be constructed to facilitate hygienic removal of wastes and avoid contamination of facilities, equipment, raw materials and the immediate environment; - Have adequate means for hygienically washing and drying hands and disinfecting footwear; and - Be maintained under sanitary conditions and in good repair at all times.
Processors should only use eggs that have been produced in accordance with the Code.
Eggs should be handled in a manner that avoids damage and contamination, including minimising moisture on the egg shell surface.
Egg products should be subjected to a microbiocidal treatment to ensure the products are safe and suitable.
Washing should be followed by effective sanitising of the shell and, where appropriate, with subsequent oiling of the shell using a suitable food grade oil.
Egg products, including those that can be stored at ambient temperatures, should be protected against external agents and contamination, e.g. direct sunlight, excessive heating, moisture, external contaminants, and from rapid temperature changes which could adversely affect the integrity of the product packaging or the safety and suitability of the product.
Reasonably anticipated temperature abuse should be integrated into the study or be taken into account by applying an appropriate safety factor (e.g., by shortening the maximum durability specified in the labeling or by requiring lower storage temperatures).
Separating the egg contents from the shell should be done in a manner that will, as far as possible, avoid cross-contamination between the shell and egg contents, avoid contamination by personnel or from equipment, and that permits examination of egg contents.
Where untreated egg products leave a grading/processing premises, they should be labeled that the product has not been treated.
Pasteurized liquid egg products should be cooled rapidly immediately after pasteurization and maintained under refrigeration.
The liquid medium in water, brine and/or juice exuding from the mushrooms shall be either clear or slightly turbid and yellow to light brown in colour.
Canned vegetables shall have normal colour, flavour and odour of canned vegetables, corresponding to the type of vegetable and packing medium used and shall possess texture characteristic of the product.
5.1 The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General standard for contaminants and toxins in food and feed (CXS 193-1995).2 5.2 The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
6.2 The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and guidelines for the establishment and application of microbiological criteria related to foods (CXG 21-1997).5
7.1.4.1 The drained weight of the product should be not less than the percentages indicated in the corresponding annexes, calculated on the basis of the weight of distilled water at 20 oC which the sealed container will hold when completely filled.iii 7.1.4.2 Lot acceptance The requirements for minimum drained weight should be deemed to be complied with when the average drained weight of all containers examined is not less than the minimum required, provided that there is no unreasonable shortage in individual containers.
In addition to the general provisions applicable to canned vegetables, the following specific provisions apply:
Mushroom ( Agaricus spp)i stands for the product prepared from mushrooms conforming with the characteristics of any suitable cultivated varieties (cultivars) of the genus Agaricus (Psalliota), which mushrooms shall be in good condition and after cleaning and trimming shall be sound.
Any container or sample unit that exceeds the tolerances laid down in paragraph (1) should be considered as a “defective”. As appropriate for the respective packing media.
Defects (3), (4) and (6) do not apply to diced, rounds, strips; for these presentations the total amount of defects (1), (2) and (5) shall not exceed 25 percent of the drained product weight.
The mushrooms in water, brine, and/or juice exuding from the mushrooms shall be firm and substantially intact.
The drained weight of the product shall be not less than 53 percent of the weight of distilled water at 20 oC which the sealed container will hold when completely filled.
The drained mushroom portion, after washing off the sauce or liquid, shall be not less than 27.5 percent of the total product weight.
The fruit must be physiologically ripe, i.e., without evidence of unrip eness (opaque, flavourless, exceedingly porous1 flesh) or overripeness (exceedingly translucent or fermented flesh).
The development and condition of the pineapples must be such as to enable them: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
For the determination of Brix degrees a representative sample of the juice of all the fruit shall be taken.
The crown, if present, shall be simple or double and straight or slightly curved, with no sprouts.
Pineapples shall be packed i n each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
The absence of the crown should be indicated.
- Class; - Size (size code or average weight in grams); - Number of units (optional); - Net weight (optional).
Chili sauce is the product: a) prepared from the edible portion of sound , clean and fresh chili ( Capsicum spp.) and/or processed chili and raw materials referred to in Section 3.1 below which are mixed and prepared to obtain the desired quality and characteristics; b) intended for use as seasoning and condiment; or c) processed by heat or by other physical means , in an appropriate manner, before or after being hermetically sealed in a container, so as to prevent spoilage.
a) with pulp and seeds homogeneously ground together; b) with pulp and seeds homogeneously ground together with the addition of particles of chili pulp, flakes and pieces and seeds distributed in the sauce; c) with crushed pulp and seeds as separate layers or distributed in the sauce; or d) with only pulp or crushed pulp or both.
Product covered by this standard shall consist of the following ingredients: a) fresh chili (Capsicum spp.) and/or processed chili such as chili powder ground from dried chili, roasted chili, ground chili, chili preserved in vinegar or in brine or frozen; b) fresh chili/peppers (Capsicum spp.) whole or pieces or pepper mash; c) vinegar or other permitted acid; d) salt;i and e) water.
This includes: a) fresh or processed, whole, pieces or pulp of fruits such as mango, papaya, tamarind and/or others; b) fresh or processed, whole, pieces or pulp of vegetables such as tomato, garlic, onion, carrot, sweet potato, and/or others; c) spices and culinary herbs and/or their extracts; d) sugars and/or other foodstuffs with sweetening properties such as honey; and e) chili extract.
A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Section 3.2, should be considered as “defective”.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Section 3.2 when the number of “defectives” as defined in Section 3.3 does not exceed the acceptance number c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an acceptable quality level (AQL) of 6.5.
b) Total soluble solids Chili sauce shall contain 8 percent – 60 percent total soluble solids, as appropriate to the type of chili sauce.
The product shall be practically free from dark specks or scale-like particles, discoloured seeds or pieces of abnormally discoloured ingredients and extraneous vegetable material excluding the dark specks or dark particles that are obtained from the natural process of the sauce, for example in the roasting process.
The product should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
b) Flexible containers should be filled as full as commercially practicable.
The appropriate inspection level is selected as follows: Inspection level I – normal sampling Inspection level II – dispute (Codex referee purpose sample size), enforcement or need for better lot estimate
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers in Foods (CXS 346-2021).
The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995)1 and the Code of Practice for the Reduction of Hydrocyanic Acid (HCN) in Cassava and Cassava Products (CXC 73-2013).2, 2 Fermented cooked cassava -based products shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).4
They shall be free from abnormal smell and taste, free of any foreign material, such as insect fragments, rodent hairs, grains of sand and dirt dust.
The label of products covered by this standard should be placed on the secondary packaging.
When cooking is done at the place of consumption, the uncooked product should be stored and transported under time/temperature conditions that will not compromise the safety of the product.
The following Protocols and Guidelines have been adopted by the Codex Alimentarius Commission by reference for quality assurance of food control laboratories: • “International Harmonized Protocol for the Proficiency Testing of (Chemical) Analytical Laboratories”, Pure & Appl. Chem., 65 (1993) 2132 -2144 and J. AOAC International, 76 (1993) 926-940; • “Protocol for the Design, Conduct and Interpretation of Method Performance Studies”, Pure & Appl. Chem., 67 (1995) 331-343; and • “Harmonized Guidelines for Internal Quality Control in Analytical Chemistry Laboratories”, Pure & Appl. Chem., 67 (1995) 649-666.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the limes must be: - whole; - sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; - practically free of damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste; - firm; - free of damage caused by low temperatures; - practically free of bruising; - pipless.
The development and condition of the limes must be such as to enable them: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
(iii) for fruit in bulk bins and fruit in individual non-rigid (nets, bags) packages for direct sale to the consumer, the maximum size difference between the smallest and the largest fruit in the same lot or package must not exceed the range obtained by grouping three consecutive sizes in the size scale.
Limes shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
It is recommended that the produce covered by the provisions of this Standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003), and other relevant Codex texts such as Codes of Hygienic Practice and Codes of Practice.
These guidelines recommend measures to be taken on the use of Halal claims in food labelling.
These guidelines apply to the use of the term halal and equivalent terms in claims as defined in the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods and include its use in trade marks, brand names and business names.
does not consist of or contain anything which is considered to be unlawful according to Islamic Law; has not been prepared, processed, transported or stored using any appliance or facility that was not free from anything unlawful according to Islamic Law; and has not in the course of preparation, processing, transportation or storage been in direct contact with any food that fails to satisfy 2.1.1 and 2.1.2 above.
All lawful land animals should be slaughtered in compliance with the rules laid down in the Codex Recommended Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Meat2 and the following requirements:
All food should be prepared, processed, packaged, transported and stored in such a manner that it complies with Section 2.1 and 2.2 above and the Codex General Principles on Food Hygiene and other relevant Codex Standards.
This standard also applies to food “processing aids”; any reference to food additives includes food processing aids.
The labels of all food additives sold by retail shall bear the information required by sub-sections 4.1 to 4.5 of this section, as applicable to the food additive being labelled.
The list shall be in the order of the proportion by weight which each food additive bears to the total contents of the
Adequate information shall be given about the manner in which the food additive is to be kept and is to be used in food.
This declaration shall be made in the following manner:
The name and address of the manufacturer, packer, distributor, importer, exporter or vendor of the food additive shall be declared.
(b) When a food additive undergoes processing in a second country which changes its chemical or physical nature, the country in which the processing is performed shall be considered to be the country of origin for the purposes of labelling.
Each container shall be marked in code or in clear to identify the producing factory and the lot.
The labels of all food additives sold other than by retail shall bear the information required by sub-sections 5.1 to 5.5 of this section, as applicable to the food additive being labelled; except that, where the food additives in non-retail containers are solely destined for further industrial processing, the required information, other than that described in sections 5.1(a) and 5.1(d), may be given on the documents relating to the sale.
The declaration shall be made in the following manner: (i) for liquid food additives, by volume or weight; (ii) for solid food additives, by weight; (iii) for semi-solid or viscous food additives, either by weight or volume.
Each container shall be marked, in code or in clear, to identify the producing factory and the lot.
In general the name and net contents of the food additive shall appear on that portion of the label normally intended to be presented to the consumer at the time of sale.
Food additives which have been treated with ionizing radiation, shall be so designated.
To mitigate Cd levels in cocoa beans , it is crucial to identify cocoa -growing areas with high Cd and develop strategies to address this problem, including mitigation measures that may be taken in the near term (e.g. soil testing and addition of soil amendments), while other measures will require longer time to implement (e.g. grafting of plants on rootstocks with low Cd uptake).
It is advisable to plant short shade trees and use citrus or fruit trees for the borders of cocoa plantations.
When planting new plantations, it is recommended to plant varieties of cocoa trees that are less prone to cadmium uptake.
Therefore, when Cd levels in cocoa beans are of concern and soil is alkaline, it is important to determine the electrical conductivity of soil and water which should be less than 2 mS/cm.
It is a recommended practice to make sure that during the fermentation of cocoa beans they are not contaminated with smoke, or with gases coming from dryers or vehicles, or industrial discharges.
National or regional authorities should consider limiting main polluting industrial activities near cocoa plantations, such as non-ferrous mining and smelting, metal-using industries, leather tanning, coal combustion and phosphate fertilizer manufacturing.
 Ensure to the extent feasible that the cocoa is not exposed to temperature fluctuations and that it is not stored near noxious materials.
Palm oil with a higher content of oleic acid must contain not less than 48 percent oleic acid (as percentage of total fatty acids).
The labelling of non -retail containers should be in accordance with the General standard for the labelling of non-retail containers of foods (CXS 346-2021).7
If not, the measurements must be repeated using more concentrated or more diluted solutions as appropriate.
Dried or dehydrated ginger as described in Section 2 above shall conform to the requirements specified in Annexes I and II.
The following processing aids used in products conforming to this standard should be consistent with the Guidelines on Substances used as Processing Aids (CXG 75-2010).2 INS No. Processing aid Maximum level 529 Calcium oxide 2.5 on dry basis by mass, %
The product shall have a characteristic odour, flavour , and colour, which can vary depending on geo -climatic factors/conditions, and shall be free from any foreign odour, flavour , and colour especially from rancidity and mustiness.
8.2.1 The common name of the product shall be as described in Section 2.1. 8.2.2 The name of the product may include an indication of the style as described in Section 2.2. 8.2.3 Trade name, variety or cultivar may be listed on the label.
The present standard applies to halwa tehenia as defined in section 2.
The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria for Foods (CAC/GL 21-1997).
When packaging, transporting and storing the product, the following considerations must be taken into account:
The name of the product for labelling purposes shall be: “Halwa Tehenia”, “Halwa Shamia” or “Halva” Optional ingredients, if used, shall be mentioned next to the name of the product. The label shall not be applied directly on the product.
Halwa Tehenia should be packaged in suitable containers that are tightly closed to protect the product from humidity and contamination, and that impede the product from sticking on the packaging material.
The means of transportation must provide protection to the product from the various climatic effects that might alter its characteristics or spoil it.
The product shall be stored inside well-ventilated warehouses, away from all sources of heat and sun and any other material that might lead to its contamination.
Quick frozen breaded or battered fish sticks (fish fingers) breaded or battered fish portions and breaded or battered fillets shall be prepared from fish fillets or minced fish flesh, or mixtures thereof, of edible species which are of a quality such as to be sold fresh for human consumption.
The coating and all ingredients used therein shall be of food grade quality and conform to all applicable Codex standards.
A fat (oil) used in the cooking operation shall be suitable for human consumption and for the desired final product characteristic (see also Section 4).
This applies only to species of Clupeidae, Scombridae, Scombresocidae, Pomatomidae and Coryphaenedae families; (iii) shall not contain any other substance in amounts which may present a hazard to health in accordance with standards established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
According to the AOAC Methods - "Moisture in Meat and Meat Products, Preparation of Sample Procedure"; 983.18 and "Moisture in Meat" (Method A); 950.46.
(ii) Sampling of lots for examination of net weight shall be carried out in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan meeting the criteria established by the Codex Alimentarius Comission.
The net weight (exclusive of packaging material) is determined on each whole primary container of each sample representing a lot and shall be determined in the frozen state.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with procedures elaborated in Sections 7.4 through 7.7, Annex A and the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CXG 31-1999).
The sample unit shall be considered defective when it exhibits any of the properties defined below: A sample unit affected by persistent and distinct objectionable odour and flavours indicative of decomposition, or rancidity or of feed.
The foot of a bone (where it has been attached to the vertebra) shall be disregarded if its width is less than or equal to 2 mm, or if it can easily be stripped off with a fingernail.
The sample used for sensory evaluation should not be the same as that used for other examinations.
Place the pre-weighed sample sub-units into water tight bags.
Thaw the samples by immersing the bags into a gently agitated water bath of about 20ºC, but not more than 35ºC.
Remove adhering drip from the bottom of the sieve by use of a pape r towel when draining is completed.
Place the drained fish core on a plate and separate the minced flesh from the fillet using a fork to hold the fillet flesh and a soft, rubber edge spatula to scrape off the minced flesh.
Remove sufficient bores to make up a sample of 500 g.
Sufficient sample should be taken to allow for unprocessed sub -units to be retained allowing possible independent confirmation of the findings.
Conclusions on the exposure of the general population can be drawn from the combining the results of: (a) Statistically based system verification programmes involving non-biased sampling; and (b) Risk targeted verification programmes.
In cases of non -compliance with the food safety parameters, competent authorities from the exporting country should conduct a trace back, apply appropriate corrective actions and then provide a summary of these to the importing country.
This should be regarded as an interim measure only until the appropriate corrective actions to the control programme have been put in place and subsequently demonstrated to be effective.
In cases where the failure lies outside of the direct control of the business operator the competent authority should prevent repetition of the failure by applying appropriate measures at the relevant control point.
The on-going performance must be monitored through the Quality Management System in place in the laboratory.
In the absence of methods validated through inter-laboratory method trials, regulatory laboratories must frequently use analytical methods which have been subjected to studies conducted within their own laboratory to characterize the method performance.
The competent authority responsible for providing consumer assurances for foods must ensure that it has sufficient knowledge of and control over veterinary drugs that are being sold and used within the production systems and that it has sufficient knowledge of food safety.
Information and/or education programmes on suitable use to provide effective treatment while affording protection of consumers should be provided for each approved veterinary product formulation.
Competent Authorities should, as appropriate to the risk profiles in the country and/or production system, consider the following potential pre-harvest control points for audit/inspection in the verification programme: (a) The sellers and purchasers of veterinary drugs to verify what is being sold and how they are being marketed; (b) The users of veterinary drugs (including farmers, veterinarians and feed compounders) to verify how drugs are actually being used in the production systems, e.g. according to label, what records are being kept and how the treatment status of animals is identified; (c) The animal and animal product distributors to verify that any food harvest restrictions associated with the animal or product are effectively communicated; (d) The assurance systems used by processors and/or producers to ensure the suitability of the animals or product they are being supplied with for the purposes they intend using it for.
In setting up system verification programmes the following should be considered: (a) Examination of the relevant control points of the control system;
Some of the selected lower risk profile veterinary drugs should be considered for rotation in and out of the programme based on history of compliance to ensure that the scope is as wide as possible.
Ideally, samples should be taken before animals and/or products are commingled with animals or product from other suppliers.
Competent Authorities should ensure that all samples can, throughout the sampling, storing, shipping, analysis and reporting, be traced back to their origin.
Statistical analysis of the results enables the user to establish a reliable detection concentration at the required confidence level (usually 95%)8.
The Codex Procedural Manual recommends the term determination limit under “Terms to be Used in the Criteria Approach”7.
It is prudent to conduct the storage study for a period which extends to at least 90 days beyond the expected time for all screening, quantitative, and confirmatory analyses to be completed and the resul ts reported in case there is a challenge and a request for re-analysis.
This Appendix applies to the following commodities: primary food commodities of animal origin and processed products of animal origin made from primary food appearing in Tables A, B and C of this appendix, and honey of the following origins and/or processing method: (a) Blossom or nectar honey that comes mainly from nectaries of flowers; (b) Honeydew honey that comes mainly from secretions of or on living parts of plants; (c) Comb honey stored by bees in the cells of freshly built broodless combs, and sold in sealed whole combs or sections of such combs; (d) Extracted honey obtained by centrifuging decapped broodless combs; (e) Pressed honey obtained by pressing broodless combs with or without the application of moderate heat.
The laboratory test portion should be prepared from the final laboratory sample by an appropriate method of reduction.
Samples and freezer packs should be fully frozen to minus 20°C prior to dispatch; (e) Replicate portions of the final laboratory sample which may be retained as required by national/regional legislation or as an administrative policy should be placed in a clean, chemically inert container to protect the sample from contamination, sealed so that unauthorized opening is detectable and stored under suitable conditions to prevent a change in the product or any residues it may contain in case future analysis is required for comparison with analytical results obtained on the sample material submitted to the laboratory.
For purposes of control, the MRLVD is applied to the residue concentration found in each laboratory sample taken from a lot.
The following characteristic parameters need to be measured for every analyte and for each matrix under study, as applicable:
This necessitates particular emphasis on performance characteristics related to detection capability and selectivity when considering the performance of MRMs.
Typically, a minimum of four identification points is required to meet accepted performance criteria
Non-biased sampling is designed to provide profile information, especially as to the extent of application or performance of a control or assurance system for a specified animal/food population over a defined period.
A sample is taken from each stratum.
The same principles should apply to export assurance programmes as are applied to the design and implementation of national assurance programmes.
All formulations of veterinary drugs approved in a country should be recorded in a national register.
In order to facilitate trade from developing countries longer transition periods and technical assistance regarding all aspects of a residue control programme should be considered.
The Competent Authority must establish an appro priate marker residue for each drug for which an MRLVD has been established and should also designate a preferred target tissue to be sampled for testing.
Collect sufficient tissue to meet laboratory sample size.
Use sample schedule. Collect primary samples to meet laboratory sample size
Collect at least 6 whole carcasses 250 - 500 g of muscle tissue Collect sufficient shellfish, depending on size.
Take sufficient units to meet laboratory sample size requirements.. 500 g
Collect sufficient units from a selected package to meet laboratory sample size.
Collect sufficient units from selected packages to meet laboratory sample size.
However, those analytes should be clearly identified in the method and must not be used for those purposes until they have been validated and/or demonstrated to be fit for purpose.
(iii) Verify consistency of recovery and precision
The evaluation of uncertainty ideally requires an understanding and estimation of the contributions to the uncertainty of each of the activities involved in the measurement process.
The primary samples should be selected randomly from the whole lot.
Before applying a default MU, laboratories should ensure that they are able to routinely achieve uncertainties not greater than the default value.
If possible, MU should be calculated based on data generated at or near the most critical concentration, for example the Codex MRL.
Then u′(bias) may be calculated as the relative standard uncertainty of the recovery factor applied (the relative uncertainty of the mean recovery) combined with the relative standard uncertainty of the spike concentration, u’(Cref). Relative Standard Uncertainty of mean recovery, ν′ cRe = n Rwu )(' Equation 6 where n = the number of replicates from which the mean recovery is calculated u′ cRe = 14 15 = 4% 22 )(')Re(')(' refCucubiasu += Equation 7 thus 22 )1()4()(' +=biasu = 4.1% Then, from Equation 2 and 1, using the u′(RW) value of 15% calculated previously u′ = 15.5% and U′ = 31% If results were corrected for recovery, the result should be reported as 0.40 ± 0.12 mg/kg
Dried basil as described in Section 2 above shall conform to the requirements in Annexes I and II.
8.1 The products covered by the provisions of this standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).8 In particular, the following specific provisions apply.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers in Foods (CXS 346-2021).9
The guidelines incorporate a rapid risk analysis approach using a cut -off value 1 and the Threshold of Toxicological Concern (TTC), to assess low levels of chemical exposures, and to identify if further data are required to assess human health risk.2,3
The guidelines should be read in conjunction with the following relevant texts: Working Principles for Risk Analysis for Food Safety for Application by Governments (CXG 62 -2007); The Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures of the World Trade Organization (WTO/SPS Agreement); Working Principles for Risk Analysis for Application in the Framework of the Codex Alimentarius (Codex Alimentarius Commission Procedural Manual.); Principles and Guidelines for National Food Control Systems (CXG 82-2013); Principles for Food Import and Export Inspection and Certification (CXG 20-1995); Guidelines for the Design, Operation, Assessment and Accreditation of Food Import and Export Inspection and Certification (CXG 26-1997); Guidelines for Food Import Control Systems (CXG 47-2003); Guidelines for the Exchange of Information between Countries on Rejections of Imported Foods (CXG 25-1997); Principles and Guidelines for the Exchange of Information in Food Safety Emergency Situations (CXG 19-1995); Guidelines for Settling Disputes over Analytical (Test) Results (CXG 70-2009); Principles and Guidelines for the Exchange of Information between Importing and Exporting Countries to support the Trade in Food (CXG 89-2016); Principles for Traceability / Product Tracing as a Tool Within a Food Inspection and Certification System (CXG 60-2006); Guidelines on the Application of Risk Assessment to Feed (CXG 80-2013); Guidance for Governments on Prioritizing Hazards in Feed (CXG 81-2013); General Guidelines on Sampling (CXG 50-2004)
