All aspects of an outbreak investigation, including factors considered when declaring an outbreak over, actions and communication should be documented for post-outbreak evaluation.
(Note that for some foodborne illnesses such as listeriosis, this information may not apply, since food causing the illness may not have been consumed recently); and • with regards to the affected person: personal details (to be treated with confidentiality), disease onset, symptoms, duration, hospitalization, underlying health conditions, person-to-person contact, information on travel, animal, and environmental exposures, etc.
Consideration should also be given to provide advice to consumers and/or businesses about appropriate handling of affected foods which should take into account any potentially associated public health risks.
Analytical evidence, on the other hand, should always be supported by epidemiological information such as that obtained from interviewing human cases, as a match between food and human isolates may not necessarily mean that the food is the actual source of the illness.
Possible delays in analyses and reporting and possible seasonal effects should be taken into account before declaring an outbreak over.
The results of such reviews should be documented and areas for improvement addressed to support capability and capacity of the system in place.
The lessons learned should be included in the ongoing development of capacity and capabilities of the international, national, and local system.
Regardless of type of joint training or exercise, it is important that the activity is put into a strategic perspective and that lessons learned are captured and put into a structured revision of the system where necessary.
Template for an outbreak analysis – fill in as much information as is available.
It is also a good idea to agree upon a strategy for communication in case the assessors are approached by the press or public – agree on what can be said, by whom and when.
When available, results from whole genome sequencing can be added, and a single - linkage tree including all human and non-human isolates should be made, illustrating the core gene allelic differences.
Quick-frozen peaches is the product prepared from fresh, sound, properly ripened fruit conforming to the characteristics of Prunus persica L., but excluding nectarine varieties, which fruit is packed with or without a dry sugar of a syrup and is packaged.
Peaches of distinct varietal types shall be designated: "freestone" ndash; where the pit separates readily from the flesh; or "clingstone" ndash; where the pit adheres to the flesh
Peaches of distinct varietal differences shall be designated according to the colour of the ripe flesh: (a) white ndash; varietal types in which the predominant colour ranges from white to yellow-white; (b) yellow ndash; varietal types in which the predominant colour ranges from pale yellow to light range; (c) red ndash; varietal types in which the colour ranges from orange red to red with more or less pronounced variegated red colouring other than that associated with the pit cavity; and (d) green ndash; varietal types in which the predominant colour is light green, but which are fully mature and properly ripened.
Quick-frozen peaches shall be presented in the following styles: (a) whole ndash; unpitted whole peaches; (b) halves ndash; pitted and cut into two approximately equal parts; (c) quarters ndash; pitted and cut into four approximately equal parts following the longitudinal axis; (d) sliced ndash; pitted and cut into wedge-shaped sectors of approximately equal size; (e) pieces ndash; (regular or irregular) ndash; pitted and comprising regular or irregular shapes and sizes; and (f) diced ndash; pitted and cut into cube-like parts having a maximum size of 15 mm long on one edge.
and with respect to visual or other defects subject to a tolerance, shall be: (e) practically free from dark discolouration or green areas (except for green in green types); (f) practically free from blemished units; (g) practically free from stalks (stems), or portions thereof, or other extraneous vegetable matter (EVM); (h) practically intact units for the style and may be materially altered in shape due to e xcess trimming or mechanical damage; (i) reasonably free from fibrous units; (j) reasonably free from overripe, mushy or disintegrated fruit; (k) reasonably free from peel; (l) free from whole pits (stones) except in whole style; and (m) practically free from pit fragments.
The sample size for segregating, classifying and enumerating visual defects is as follows: Style Standard sample size Whole 20 units (whole fruits) Halved and quartered 30 units (halves and quarters) Sliced, diced, pieces 300 grams The above sample units are made up of drained fruit ( see relevant Codex texts on methods of analysis and sampling).
Any sample unit taken in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5, (see relevant Codex texts on methods of analysis and sampling), and which is adjusted to a standard sample unit size for applying the tolerances relating to visual defects, shall be regarded as "defective" for the respective characteristics, as follows: (a) any sample unit that fails to meet the general requirements of Section 3.3.1; and (b) any sample unit that fails the total allowable points for defect categories minor, major, or serious; or which fails the total allowable points for the combined total of the respective defect categories (3.3.4).
In addition to the requirements of the Codex General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985),3 the following specific provisions apply:
In the case of quick-frozen peaches in bulk, the information required above shall either be placed on the container or be given in accompanying documents, except that the name of the food accompanied by the words "quick-frozen" (the term "frozen" may be applied in countries where this term is customarily used for describing the product processed in accordance with sub section 2.2 of this standard) and the name and address of the manufacturer or packer shall appear on the container.
(a) the style, as appropriate: "whole", "halves", "quarters", "slices", "pieces" or "diced"; and (b) the packing medium: "with (name of the sweetener and whether as such or as the syrup)".
Packaging used for quick-frozen peaches shall:
Minimum size of each laboratory sample varies by product size: 1.1 small sized fresh products (units generally < 25 g) require 1 kg, 1.2 medium sized fresh products (units generally 25-250 g) require 1 kg (at least 10 units), 1.3 large sized fresh products (units generally > 250 g) require 2 kg (at least 5 units).
(iii) Creams in bulk should be mixed thoroughly with a plunger before sampling but foaming, whipping and churning must be avoided.
Cheeses with a rectangular base should be sampled by making two cuts parallel to the sides.
The primary samples should be combined and mixed well, if practicable, to form the bulk sample.
In this case, the result to be used should be the mean of valid results obtained from the laboratory samples analyzed.
Note: for enforcement of MRLs for fat soluble pesticides samples must be taken according to section 5 below.
Where the residue level must be calculated to include parts which are not analysed ††, the weights of the separated parts must be recorded.
Additional portions must be withdrawn for replicate and confirmatory analyses, as required.
(i) For products comprised of large units, in class A only, the minimum number of primary samples should comply with the minimum number of units required for the laboratory sample (see Table 4).
Note: for enforcement of MRLs for fat soluble pesticides samples must be taken according to section 2 below.
Refer to Table 1 to determine the number of primary samples required.
Preparation of the analytical sample must reflect the procedure used in setting Codex MRLs and thus the portion of the product to be analysed may include parts that are not normally consumed.
(b) Units should not be cut or broken to produce the laboratory sample(s), except where sub-division of units is specified in Table 3. (c) Replicate laboratory samples may be prepared.
(b) The number of units required for a primary sample should be determined by the minimum size and number of laboratory samples required.
The officer must understand that consistent adherence to the specified sampling procedures is necessary, must provide complete documentation for samples, and should collaborate closely with the laboratory.
Units should be identified as follows.
6. A replicate laboratory sample is held by the monitoring laboratory, until required for analysis by the referee laboratory.
Patients with symptoms of CP should be asked thoroughly about the types of fish they have consumed as well as consumption times and places.
Based on surveillance and monitoring, competent authorities could determine if changes to ecosystems are contributing to an increase in Gambierdiscus or Fukuyoa algae or CTX-contaminated fish in the area, and if steps can be taken to decrease these effects.
Product as described in Section 2 above shall conform to the requirements contained in Annexes I and II.
The product shall have a characteristic odour, flavour , and colour, which can vary depending on geo -climatic factors/conditions, and shall be free from any foreign odour, flavour, and colour especially from rancidity and mustiness.
The products covered by the provisions of this standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).6 In addition, the following specific provisions apply:
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers in Foods (CXS 346-2021).7
This has been addressed by the development of a multidisciplinary approach for assessing safety, which takes into account both intended and unintended changes that may occur in the animal or in the food products derived from it, using the concept of substantial equivalence.
Safety assessment should include data and information to reduce the possibility that a food derived from a recombinant-DNA animal would have an unexpected, adverse effect on human health.
The safety assessment follows a stepwise process of addressing relevant factors that include: A) General description of the recombinant-DNA animal; B) Description of the recipient animal prior to the modification6 and its use as food or for food production; C) Description of the donor organism or other source(s) of the introduced recombinant-DNA; D) Description of the genetic modification(s) including the construct(s) used to introduce the recombinant-DNA; E) Description of the methods used to produce the initial recombinant-DNA animal7 and the processes to produce the recombinant-DNA animal ultimately used as food or for food production;
Analytical methods should be documented.8
In essence, therefore, the outcome of the safety assessment process is to define the product under consideration in such a way as to enable risk managers to determine whether any measures are needed to protect the health of consumers and if so to make well-informed and appropriate decisions in this regard.
It is particularly important to determine whether the recombinant-DNA sequences impart pathogenicity or toxin production, or have other traits that affect human health (e.g. allergenicity).
Information should be provided on the DNA to be introduced, including: A) the primary DNA sequence if the recombinant-DNA was synthesized and it is not from a known natural source B) the characterization of all the genetic components including marker genes, regulatory and other elements affecting the expression and function of the DNA; C) the size and identity; D) the location and orientation of the sequence in the final vector/construct; and E) the function.
In addition, information should be provided to: A) demonstrate whether the arrangement of the genetic material used for insertion has been conserved or whether significant rearrangement have occurred upon integration; B) demonstrate whether deliberate modifications made to the amino acid sequence of the expressed protein result in changes in its post-translational modification or affected sites critical for its structure or function;
In other cases, the use of appropriate conventional toxicology or other studies on the new substances may be necessary.
The evaluation should include the following: A) General health and performance indicators, including behaviour, growth and development, general anatomy, and reproductive function, if appropriate; B) Physiological measures including clinical and analytical parameters; C) Other species-specific considerations, where appropriate.
The purpose of this comparison, in conjunction with an exposure assessment as necessary, is to establish that substances that are nutritionally important or that can affect the safety of the food have not been altered in a manner that would have an adverse impact on human health.
The safety assessment should take the potential for these alterations into account, and where such alterations are identified, consideration should be given to the potential impacts on human health using conventional procedures for establishing safety.
Alternative transformation technologies that do not result in antibiotic resistance marker genes in foods should be used in the future development of recombinant-DNA animals, where such technologies are available and demonstrated to be safe.
This assessment should provide an estimate of the amount of orally ingested antibiotic that could be degraded by the presence of the enzyme in food, taking into account factors such as dosage of the antibiotic, amount of enzyme likely to remain in food following exposure to digestive conditions, including neutral or alkaline stomach conditions and the need for enzyme cofactors (e.g. ATP) for enzyme activity and estimated concentration of such factors in food.
Validated search and evaluation procedures should be used in order to produce biologically meaningful results.
If the product is to be considered further, it should be assessed using serum from individuals sensitised to the identified allergenic source.
All the information resulting from the sequence homology comparison between the newly expressed protein and known allergens should be reported to allow a case-by-case scientifically based evaluation.
Dried or dehydrated turmeric as described in Section 2.1 above shall conform to the requirements specified in Annex I.
The product shall have a characteristic odour, flavour, and colour, which can vary depending on geoclimatic factors/conditions, and shall be free from any foreign odour, flavour, and colour especially from rancidity and mustiness.
This code of hygienic practice applies to fruit and vegetable products which are packed in hermetically sealed containers and which are processed by heat either before or after being filled into the containers.
C. Heat processed means processed by heat to an extent which results in a product that is safe and will not spoil under normally expected temperatures of non-refrigerated storage and transportation.
Suitable precautions should be taken to protect the raw product from being contaminated by animals, insects, vermin, birds, chemical or microbiological
The building and surrounding area should be such as can be kept reasonably free of objectionable odours, smoke, dust, or other contamination; should be of sufficient size for the purpose intended without crowding of equipment or personnel; should be of sound construction and kept in good repair; should be of such construction as to protect against the entrance and harbouring of insects or birds or vermin; and should be so designed as to permit easy and adequate cleaning.
Raw materials stored on the plant premises should be maintained under conditions that will protect against contamination and infestation and minimize deterioration.
Water used for conveying raw material into the plant should be from a source or suitably treated as not to constitute a public health hazard and should be used only by permission of the official agency having jurisdiction.
Where non-potable water is used - for such purposes as fire control - it must be carried in completely separate lines, identified preferably by colour and with no cross-connection or back-siphonage with the lines carrying potable water.
should be on a continuous or near continuous basis using water and/or appropriate equipment so that Gloves should be made of an impermeable material except where their usage would be inappropriate or incompatible with the work involved.
While additional and more specific requirements may be established for certain products, the following should apply as minimal in all food production, handling, storage and distribution.
Packaging should be done under conditions that preclude the introduction of contamination into the product.
Appropriate methods should be used for sampling and analysis or determination to meet the following specifications.
The name of the food shall be: - Cream powder according to the composition in Section 3.2 - Whole milk powder - Partly skimmed milk powder - Skimmed milk powder Partly skimmed milk powder may be designated “semi-skimmed milk powder” provided that the content of milkfat does not exceed 16 percent m/m and is not less than 14 percent m/m.
When sized, the size designation and the method used shall be indicated on the package.
Dried or dehydrated fruits and berries as described in Table 1 shall conform to the requirements contained in Annex I.
The product shall have a characteristic odour, flavour and colour, which can vary depending on geoclimatic factors/conditions, and shall be free from any foreign odour, flavour and colour , especially from rancidity and mustiness.
When dried or dehydrated fruits and berries as described in Table 1 are traded as classified/graded, the provisions in Annex I shall apply as the minimum requirements for the lowest class/grade.
The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and guidelines for the establishment and application of microbiological criteria related to foods (CXG 21-1997).7
Containers shall be as full as practical without impairment of quality and shall be consistent with a proper declaration of contents for the product.
The products covered by the provisions of this standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General standard for the labelling of pre -packaged foods (CXS 1-1985).8 In addition, the following specific provisions apply:
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General standard for the labelling of non-retail containers of foods (CXS 346-2021).9
This Codex Code of Practice for Radiation Processing of Food identifies the essential practices to be implemented to achieve effective radiation processing of food products in a manner that maintains quality and yields food products that are safe and suitable for consumption.
The provisions of this Code will provide guidance to the radiation processor to apply the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) system, as recommended in the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), where applicable for food safety purposes, to foods processed by ionizing radiation.
Such dose limits are expressed as ranges or as single lower or upper values (i.e., no part of the food product shall absorb less than or more than a specified amount).
Primary food products intended for radiation processing should comply with the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969) with reference to the hygienic requirements as well as other relevant CXS standards and codes of practice for primary production and/or harvesting, which ensure that food is safe and suitable for human consumption.
Food intended for radiation processing should conform to handling, storage and transport requirements of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969) as well as relevant CXS standards and codes of practice for specific food products.
Facilities which carry out irradiation of food products should meet appropriate standards of occupational safety and good hygiene conditions, including: - Regulations regarding design, construction and operation of radiation facilities - General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969) - General Standard for Irradiated Foods (CXS 106-1983) and this Code.
A food irradiation facility, like any other food processing plant, is also subject to such regulation and should be designed, constructed and operated in compliance with relevant regulations.
The staff at an irradiation facility is subject to relevant sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969) for personal hygiene recommendations and to the General Standard for Irradiated Foods for recommendations regarding the need for an adequate, trained and competent personnel.
Such records enable verification of the irradiation process and should be kept.
It is important that all steps in the determination of process procedures are documented to: a) ensure that the application of the process complies with relevant regulatory requirements; b) establish a clear statement for the technological objectives of the process; c) estimate the dose range to be applied to achieve the technological objective based on appropriate knowledge of the food product; d) demonstrate that irradiation of test samples has been carried out to confirm the estimated dose range under practical production conditions; e) ensure that it is possible to meet the technological requirements, e.g. dose range and effectiveness of treatment, under practical production conditions; and f) establish the process parameters under practical production conditions.
The calibration of the dosimetry system used in radiation processing should be traceable (i.e., calibrated) to national and international standards.
All food labelling must meet any additional requirements established by the competent authorities.
All documentation should be available to authorized personnel and accessible for a period of time established by food control authorities.
Fruit that is over-ripe, fallen, green, bruised and/or damaged, or containing foreign materials such as sticks, stem, leaves, bark and root material should be rejected and not be used in the production of fermented noni fruit juice.
The resultant fermented noni fruit juice is pasteurized or otherwise treated to eliminate pathogens of public health significance.
To the extent possible, fermented noni fruit juice shall be free from objectionable matter (e.g. noni leaves, seed fragments, fruit skin fragments, stems, insects, etc.) and according to good manufacturing practice.
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999)6 relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels for contaminants that are specified for the product in the General Standard for Contaminants and To xins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1985),1 and the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The product should also comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).3
The products shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Food (CXS 1-1985).4
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).5
If the spices, herbs or mixtures thereof have been exposed to one of the above treatments, labelling of the non-retail containers shall either be given on the container or in accompanying documents.
Standard methods should be used for sampling, analysis and other determinations to meet the following criteria for spices, herbs and mixtures thereof with or without other food ingredients, and which have been treated according to this Guide:
Where the treatment involves an extraction process, the extractant should be approved for use in food and used according to good manufacturing practice.
Where irradiation is used for the control of microbial contamination or insect infestation, this should be done in accordance with good irradiation practice and in conformity with the "Codex General Standard for Irradiated Foods" (CODEX STAN 106 -1983) and the "Recommended International Code of Practice for the Operation of Irradiation Facilities Used for the Treatment of Foods" (CAC/RCP 19 -1979-Rev.1).
Where the treatment involves exposure to chemicals to control microorganisms (e.g. fumigants) whether in solid, fluid or gaseous form, the chemicals used should be those approved for the purpose.
The programme should provide for rejection of products whose suitability for use is impaired.
Laboratory procedures used should follow appropriate and recognized methods in order that the results may be readily interpreted.
Spices and herbs treated as in 3.4.2 and 3.4.4 should contain the lowest attainable amount of residue of the chemical(s) or extractant(s) used.
The microbiological specification of the treated spices or herbs should be compatible with the preservation parameters of the meat and poultry products in which they are used.
19 Refer to the International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene.
18 Refer to the International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene.
The results of these studies should be used to determine the appropriate shelf life for the product under consideration.
Foods that contain one or more ingredients that are excluded and one or more ingredients that are included are covered by this Code.
Each section provides recommendations specific to safety of refrigerated packaged foods with extended shelf life.
There should be a strict separation in the plant of the High Risk area(s) from other production area(s).
• To keep raw materials, in-process products and final products in optimal condition and protected from cross-contamination, storage and processing facilities should also follow the principles of "one-way-flow" and "first in, first out" and be equipped to maintain temperature, humidity and ventilation
- systems for steam removal and humidity control should be effective, hygienically designed and well maintained to minimize condensation or other cross contamination between raw materials and processed products.
- All processing apparatus, thermal or otherwise, should be designed to be hygienic and should be provided with suitable instrumentation.
Particular attention should be paid to splashing and/or aerosol from these sources.
The plant should be designed and equipped in such a way that the interior temperature is compatible with keeping products at a temperature that controls proliferation of microorganisms during the various operations, regardless of the outside temperature.
Air in HR areas should be filtered and kept under positive pressure.
These monitoring devices should be clearly visible and placed so that the maximum temperature in the refrigerated area is recorded as accurately as possible.
In HR areas: Rapid chilling of cooked products (not filled and sealed) should be in a room and/or equipment that is designed and operated to prevent contamination.
Moreover, it is very important to establish the shelf life of the product, using scientific data, taking into account the scheduled heat or other preservation treatments, the use of hurdles and anticipated distribution and storage temperatures.
The HACCP approach will allow the identification of when the use of High Risk area is necessary.
Factors to be taken into account in the establishment of the cooling method can include: temperature of product before cooling begins; temperature of cooling medium, circulation and temperature distribution in cooling system; time of cooling especially for products conveyed through cooling equipment;
type and maximum number of microorganisms in raw materials; any potential for growth before heat treatment; desired number of log reduction of target microorganism(s); temperature of product before heat treatment begins; amount of heat required to bring the product to the desired level of safety; temperature distribution in heat treatment vessel; composition (solid to liquid ratio) and consistency (viscosity) affecting rate of heat penetration; type of product or container that can lead to stratification of product during heating or to a change in dimensions of container during heating; size of container, type of material, weight of individual portion and maximum weight for filling; recommended cooking by end-user before consumption (as long as the cooking temperature results in a reduction of microorganisms of public health significance)
Critical limits should be measured, checked and recorded as necessary.
When a microwave oven is used, manufacturer's instructions should be followed to prevent overheated areas and uneven thawing.
It is critical to ensure that the cooling applied conforms to the method specified.
If acceptable, the products should be moved to a suitable area; if not, they should be removed from the case, not offered for sale, and destroyed if necessary.
This area should be maintained at a high level of hygiene, and the practices concerning personnel, materials, equipment and environment managed so as to prevent contamination from pathogenic microorganisms.
Packaging materials should be suitable for the type of product, the conditions provided for storage and the equipment for filling, sealing and packaging, as well as transportation conditions.
Discarded raw materials should be clearly marked so as to identify them as unusable for manufacture of products.
Appropriate documentation of stock rotation should be kept.
For cooled product, the ambient temperature should be
Maintenance procedures and schedules should be established and followed especially for equipment used for thermal processing, refrigeration, cooling equipment and ventilation systems, and their controls.
All staff assigned to cleaning the establishment should be experienced in sanitation maintenance methods and should verify that proper methods have been used and recorded.
Receptacles should be kept in good condition and be easy to clean and sanitize. Reusable receptacles should be cleaned and disinfected before they are brought back into the processing areas.
 These clothes and footwear should not be removed from this area (except for laundering) and should be taken off in the cloakroom when personnel leave the production line for any reason.  Clean clothing should be worn at the beginning of the work day and should be changed at the end of the work day, shift or more frequently if needed.
In HR areas: Visitors should be subjected to the same requirements for hygiene as employees.
Transfer to cold storage or store display cases should be made as quickly as possible after unloading.
Special attention should be paid to those products that are exposed to the processing environment following a pathogen reduction step, products that are not subjected to a pathogen reduction step, and products for which ingredients are added after a pathogen reduction step.
Source Plant –plant (non-dried) from which the spice or dried culinary herb is derived.
Refer to the General Principles of Food Hygiene and other applicable codes.
Premises and rooms should be designed with a means of dust control, since spices and dried culinary herbs are likely to generate particulate matter that can be carried to other parts of the room or premises by air currents.
Alternatively, separation of areas and control of dust can also be achieved by the appropriate design of ventilation systems and airflow.
Entry and exit doors from basic (general) hygiene areas to areas of more stringent hygiene control should be tightly fitted and, if necessary, equipped with self-closing devices.
Equipment should be installed so as to allow access for cleaning and to minimize transfer of dust particles to other pieces of equipment or to the environment.
Problems should be corrected as soon as they are detected to ensure a sound structure of the facility.
Push buttons, valve handles, switches and touch screens should be designed to ensure product and other residues (including liquid) do not penetrate or accumulate and become a harbourage site.
When water is used in other areas such as the basic hygiene area, water drainage must ensure rapid drying.
Non-fixed equipment should be cleaned outside of the area needing more stringent hygiene control.
Where air is used in the facility, in the equipment or in processing lines for specific purposes such as for cooling or transportation of products, direct contact with the product is possible and the air should be dried and filtered to exclude microorganisms and moisture, where appropriate.
Measures should be taken at each step in the food chain to minimize the potential for contamination of spices and dried culinary herbs by microbial pathogens (including mycotoxin-producing moulds), chemical contaminants and other contaminants not intentionally added to food such as excreta, rodent hair, and insect fragments, which may compromise food safety or suitability.
The finished product should not be released until adequate investigation has shown that it complies with appropriate specifications.
Environmental samples should be taken to verify the effectiveness of the cleaning and disinfection in the area unintentionally contaminated with water.
When monitoring of control measures or verification results demonstrate deviations, appropriate corrective actions should be taken.
Nevertheless, potable water should be used for jacketed temperature-controlled equipment, to prevent contamination of product being held or processed in the equipment in the event of microfractures in the equipment that could allow traces of contaminated water to leak inside.
Managers and supervisors should also have an understanding of the procedures to follow when environmental or finished product sampling results are non-compliant.
Reference should also be made to Principles for Traceability/Product Tracing as a Tool within a Food Inspection and Certification System (CXG 60-2006).
 Cleaning and disinfection programs should be monitored for their effectivenes s and verified by visual observations and, where applicable, environmental monitoring.
 If necessary, production should be stopped while controlled wet cleaning is taking place and only restarted once the area is dry.
The following should be considered when wet cleaning is used:  The amount of water should be minimized and its use should be limited to specific areas where possible.  Excessive use of water and high pressure hoses should be avoided.  Care should be taken to prevent tracking water into areas intended to remain dry.  Complete drying of all areas should be done after wet cleaning.
Wet cleaning should be followed by thorough drying.
Drains should be trapped or otherwise equipped with appropriate means to prevent entry of pests from drainage systems.
Care should be taken to prevent access to waste by pests.
Such training should include personnel who enter the area on a temporary basis (e.g. maintenance workers, contractors).
The typical action to be taken when there is a failure to m eet the above criterion would be to (1) prevent the affected lot from being released for human consumption; (2) recall the product if it has been released for human consumption and (3) determine and correct the root cause of the failure. 4 FAO/WHO.2016. Risk Manager’s Guide to the Statistical Aspects of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods Microbiological Risk Assessment Series VOL 24, available at ftp://ftp.fao.org/codex/meetings/CCFH/CCFH46/FAO%20MC%20draft%20140814a.pdf
Sampling plans should also be modified appropriately when facility and equipment modifications occur.
The frequency should also be increased in situations where an increased risk of contamination can be expected, e.g. in the case of maintenance or construction activities, a contamination event, or following wet cleaning activities.
After sa mpling, care should be taken to ensure the area is completely dry after the sampling.
However, in the case of positive findings, additional testing will be necessary to determine the location of the positive sample.
A continual review of the data is important to revise and adjust monitoring programs and take actions to manage contamination.
The manufacturer should address each non -conforming result of Salmonella and evaluate changes and/or patterns in the trends of EB counts; the type of action will depend upon the likelihood of contaminating the product with Salmonella and/or other pathogens of concern.
Particular attention is given to minimizing microbial hazards.
For spices and culinary herbs collected from the wild, only the measures for handling and post-harvest activities (i.e. from section 3.3.2 onward) apply.
Source plants for spices and dried culinary herbs should be protected, to the extent practicable, from contamination by human, animal, domestic, industrial and agricultural wastes which may be present at levels likely to be a risk to health.
When the amount harvested exceeds processing capabilities, the excess should be stored under appropriate conditions.
Source plant material that has fallen to the ground should be disposed of properly if it cannot be made safe by further processing.
The storage location should prevent access, to the extent practicable, by rodents or other animals and birds and should be isolated from areas of excessive human or equipment traffic.
Removal of discarded plant material should be done on a regular basis in order to avoid accumulation that would promote the presence of pests.
The thickness layer of the drying source plant material should be considered in order to consistently achieve a safe moisture level.
Facilities for the storage of spices and dried culinary herbs should be designed and constructed to prevent high humidity or other conditions that could result in moisture levels in product that would support the growth of moulds.
The thickness layer of the drying source plant should be considered in order to consistently achieve a safe moisture level.
Debris from culling and sorting should be periodically collected and stored away from the drying, processing and packaging areas to avoid cross-contamination and attracting pests.
The process should ensure that all of the product is exposed to the minimum dose of radiation needed to provide the intended effect.
Regardless of the type of separator used, the following parameters should be considered:, density, weight and size of particle, air speed, inclination of the sieve plate, vibration, etc. for the highest effectiveness of the procedure.
Prior to bulk transport, the products must be dried to a safe moisture level to prevent the growth of moulds and pathogenic bacteria.
3.2.1 Moisture content 15 percent m/m max Lower moisture limits should be required for certain destinations in relation to the climate, duration of transport and storage.
4.3 Mycotoxins Degermed maize (corn) meal and maize (corn) grits shall comply with those maximum mycotoxin limits established by the CAC for this commodity.
Degermed maize meal and degermed maize grits shall be free from filth (impurities of animal origin, including dead insects) in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “degermed maize (corn) meal”, or “maize (corn) grits”.
The yield of ash on incineration shall not exceed 8% on a dry weight basis.
The residual fat content shall be compatible with Good Manufacturing Practices.
SPP shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
SPP shall be packed in suitable hygienic containers which will maintain the product during storage and transport in a dry and sanitary condition.
The provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) shall apply.
(a) shall be free from micro-organisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; (b) shall not contain substances originating from micro -organisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; and (c) shall not contain other poisonous substances in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
– “Soy protein concentrate” or “soya protein concentrate” when the protein content is 65% or more and less than 90%.
The end product shall meet the following general requirements:
The product shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).
The product shall be packed in containers, which will safeguard the hygienic, nutritional and organoleptic quality of the end product.
The product shall be stored in a well -ventilated store, protected against direct heat, moisture and contamination.
The used metal container shall be coated with food grade lacquer, suitable for the product, with no mechanical defect and rust free.
The end product container shall have no swelling, the inner pressure shall be less than atmospheric pressure at 20oC.
The name of the food shall be "Humus with Tehena".
The producer should monitor the effects of the implemented measures and should review them if necessary.
Some of these may contain further information about drying or smoking, which should also be considered.
JECFA has recommended that direct drying be replaced with indirect drying.
a) The composition of the smoke depending of e.g. the type of wood or other plant materials, the amount of oxygen present and the temperature of pyrolysis and possibly the length of time for which the plant materials are burned; b) The design of the smoking chamber and of the equipment used for smoke/air mixture (e.g. length of the pipe in the equipment); c) Filtering or cooling the smoke where possible; d) Washing off the smoke between a smoke generator and the smoke chamber where possible; e) Install baffles after the smoke generator equipped with a device for decantation of tar if possible;
The drying process should begin as soon as possible after the receipt of the crops to avoid unnecessary deterioration.
JECFA recommended that contact of food with combustion gasses be minimized.
Direct contact of oil seeds or cereals with combustion products during drying processes has been found to result in accumulation of PAH and should therefore be avoided.
a) Temperature of the air should be optimal; b) Minimize the time that food is in contact with combustion gasses; c) Use of active carbon during refining of the oil; d) Avoid fire drying of oilseeds; e) Avoid direct contact of oilseeds or cereals with combustion products; f) Keep equipment clean and well maintained (especially driers).
Of course, it is important to pay attention to possible recontamination if secondary alkaline
The diminished organoleptic properties of sulfuric acid-HVP are improved by combination of the final product with flavourings (e.g. monosodium glutamate, caramel, disodium inosinate, disodium guanylate and lactic acid).
Short-term fermented soy sauce is produced in a similar manner except that the salt water fermentation/ageing stage takes place at or above 40 °C and the process is completed within 90 days.
The name of the food shall be “Tehena”.
The drained weight of the product should be not less than 60 percent of the weight of distilled water at 20 oC which the sealed container will hold when completely filled.
They undergo operations such as washing, peeling, coring, stemming, grading, cutting, trimming, deseeding, pitting etc. as may be applicable for the respective fruit in normal culinary preparation, depending on the type of product; (2) (a) packed with a suitable liquid packing medium including other optional ingredients as indicated in Sections 3.1.2 and 3.1.3; or (b) vacuum packaged with packing medium that does not exceed 20 percent of the product’s net weight and when the container is sealed in such conditions as to generate an internal pressure in accordance with good manufacturing practices;i and (3) processed in an appropriate manner, before or after being hermetically sealed in a container, so as to prevent spoilage and to ensure product stability in normal storage conditions at ambient temperature.
The drained weight of the product should not be less than 50 percent of the weight of distilled water at 20 oC which the sealed container will hold when completely filled.
The cut- out strength for any syrup packing medium shall be determined on average, but no container may have a soluble solids (oBrix) value beyond the next category of the medium oBrix.
Canned mixed fruits shall have normal colour, flavour and odour of canned mixed fruits, corresponding to the type of fruits, packing medium, added optional ingredients used and shall possess texture characteristic of the product.
For products not covered by the Annexes, size and shapes of fruits shall be as appropriate for the product.
For products covered by the annexes, defects should not be present in amounts greater than the limitations fixed in the individual annexes.
The name of the product shall be “tropical fruit salad” or another name that accurately describes the product and is not misleading or confusing to the consumer.
In case of flexible containers and rigid plastic containers, these should be filled as full as commercially practicable.
A container that fails to meet the requirement for minimum fill of Section 7 .1.1 should be considered as a “defective”.
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis contained in the Recommended methods of analysis and sampling (CXS 234-1999) relevant to the provisions in this standard shall be used.
The appropriate inspection level is selected as follows: Inspection level I - Normal sampling Inspection level II - Disputes (Codex referee purposes sample size ), enforcement or need for better lot estimate
Canned fruit cocktail is the product prepared from a mixture of small fruits and small pieces of fruits as listed under Section 1.3. Canned tropical fruit salad is the product prepared from a mixture of basic fruits as listed under Section 1. 3. 1 "Basic fruits" to which may be added one or more optional fruits as listed under Section 1.3.2 "Optional fruits".
Fruit common name Scientific name Form Other characteristics Apples Malus domestica Peeled, cored, diced Any cultivars of the species mentioned Cherries Prunus cerasus L. Halves or whole, pitted or unpitted (i) any light, sweet variety; or (ii) artificially coloured red; or (iii) artificially coloured red with added flavourings, whether natural or synthetic. Grapes Vitis vinifera L. or Vitis labrusca L. Whole seedless varieties Peaches Prunus persica L. Peeled, pitted, diced pieces Firm yellow varieties including clingstone and freestone types but excluding nectarines. Pears Pyrus communis L. or Pyrus sinensis L. Peeled, cored, diced pieces Any variety of the species mentioned. Pineapples Ananas comosus L. Peeled, cored in sectors, or diced Any variety of the species mentioned.
The products shall contain fruits in the following proportions, based on the individual drained fruit weights in relation to the total drained weight of all the fruits: 5 fruits – fruit cocktail 4 fruits – fruit cocktail Peaches 30% to 50% 30% to 50% Pears or apples 25% to 45% 25% to 45% Pineapple 6% to 16% 6% to 25% and either Grapes 6% to 20% 6% to 20% or Cherries 2% to 6% 2% to 15% Canned tropical fruit salad shall be substantially free from defects within the following prescribed limits: Defect Maximum limits (1) Blemished fruit pieces 2 pieces/100 g of drained fruit (2) Peel (based on averages) 6.5 cm²/500 g of total contents (3) Seeds (other than passionfruit seeds, pomegranate seeds and dragon fruit seeds) Seed material and extraneous vegetable matter 2 g/500 g of total contents
The fruit ingredient shall consist of each of the two fruit groups listed under Section 1.3.1 “Basic fruits” to which may be added any one or more of the tropical fruits listed under Section 1 .3.2 “Optional fruits”.
Canned tropical fruit salad shall have a colour characteristic of the mixed processed fruits, except that a slight bleaching of colour from the coloured cherries or other fruits and fruit juices used as packing medium such as pomegranate or passion fruit is acceptable.
Canned tropical fruit salad shall have a normal flavour and odour characteristic for the particular blend of fruits.
The texture of the fruit ingredient shall be appropriate for the respective fruit.
In addition, they must have a fresh appearance and have their natural colouring.
 to withstand transport and handling; and  to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
The bundles shall be packed in each container in compliance with the recommended international Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).1
The produce covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995).4
The produce should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).7
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce “culantro coyote”, or its name in the country of marketing, and may be labelled as to the name of the variety and/or commercial type, specifying the form of presentation (individual or in bunches).
These ingredients may be chopped, sliced and broken into pieces; and (c) fermented before or after being packaged into appropriate containers to ensure the proper ripening and preservation of the product by lactic acid production at low temperatures.
