3.4 The products covered by this standard shall be prepared with special c are under Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) to avoid contamination with gluten.
Gluten-free foods are dietary foods a) consisting of or made only from one or more ingredients which do not contain wheat (i.e. all Triticum species, such as durum wheat, spelt, and khorasan wheat, which is also marketed under different trademarks such as KAMUT), rye, barley, oats1 or their crossbred varieties, and the gluten level does not exceed 20 mg/kg in total, based on the food as sold or distributed to the consumer, and/or b) consisting of one or more ingredients from wheat (i.e. all Triticum species, such as durum wheat, spelt, and khorasan wheat, which is also marketed under different trademarks such as KAMUT ), rye, barley, oats1 or their crossbred varieties, which have been specially processed to remove gluten, and the gluten level does not exceed 20 mg/kg in total, based on the food as sold or distributed to the consumer.
In addition to the general labelling provisions contained in the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) and the General Standard for the Labelling of and Claims for Prepackaged Foods for Special Dietary Uses (CXS 146-1985), and any specific labelling provisions set out in a Codex standard applying to the particular food concerned, the following provisions for the labelling of 2 gluten-free foods2 shall apply:
Methods used for determination should be validated and calibrated against a certified reference material, if available.
This standard applies to dairy permeate powders, in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this standard, intended for further processing and/or as ingredient in other foods.
Seed lactose in the manufacture of pre-crystallized products.
The processing aids used in products covered by this standard should comply with the Guidelines on Substances Used as Processing Aids (CXG 75-2010).3
The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels for contaminants that are specified for the product in the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995).4 The milk used in the manufacture of the raw materials covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels for contaminants and toxins specified for milk by the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995)4 and with the maximum residue limits for veterinary drug residues and pesticides established for milk by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).7
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985)8 and the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999),2 the following specific provisions apply:
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999)10 relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).9
3.1.4 Processed Quinoa color should be characteristic, where the most common are white (pearly, pale, grayish), black and red, among others.
Lower moisture limits should be required for certain destinations in relation to the climate, duration of transport and storage.
The product covered by this Standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).
The product covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
For checking the compliance with this Standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999) relevant to the provisions in this Standard shall be used.
The application of this section of the standard should take into account the recommendations made in the International Code of Marketing of Breast -milk Substitutes (WHO, 1981),2 the Global Strategy for Infant and Young Child Feeding and World Health Assembly resolution WHA54.2 (2001).3
3.1.3 The energy content and nutrient composition of formula for special medical purposes intended for infants shall be based on the requirements for infant formula as given in Sections A 3.1.2 and 3.1.3, except for the compositional provisions which must be modified to meet the special nutritional requirements arising from the disease(s), disorder(s) or medical condition(s) for whose dietary management the product is specifically formulated, labelled and presented. 3.1.4 In addition to the requirements in Section 3.1.3 the following requirements shall also be taken into account, where appropriate: Chromium Unit Minimum Maximum GUL bcg/100 kcal 1.5 - 10 bcg/100 kJ 0.4 - 2.4
Infant formula based on non-hydrolysed milk protein containing less than 2 g protein/100 kcal and infant formula based on hydrolysed protein containing less than 2.25 g protein/100 kcal should be clinically evaluated.
Vitamin E content shall be at least 0.5 mg α-TE per g PUFA, using the following factors of equivalence to adapt the minimal vitamin E content to the number of fatty acid double bonds in the formula: 0.5 mg -TE/g linoleic acid (18:2 n-6); 0.75 α-TE/g α-linolenic acid (18:3 n-3); 1.0 mg α-TE/g arachidonic acid (20:4 n-6); 1.25 mg α-TE/g eicosapentaenoic acid (20:5 n-3); 1.5 mg α-TE/g docosahexaenoic acid (22:6 n-3). Vitamin K Unit Minimum Maximum GUL µg/100 kcal 4 - 27 µg/100 kJ 1 - 6.5 Thiamine Unit Minimum Maximum GUL µg/100 kcal 60 - 300 µg/100 kJ 14 - 72 Riboflavin Unit Minimum Maximum GUL µg/100 kcal 80 - 500 µg/100 kJ 19 - 119
The formula shall contain sufficient amounts of these substances to achieve the intended effect.
6.1 It is recommended that the product covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969),6 and other relevant Codex texts such as the Code of Hy gienic Practice for Powdered Formula e for Infants and Young Children (CXC 66-2008).7 6.2 The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Food (CXG 21-1997).8 See Section A 6.
A product which contains neither milk nor any milk derivative shall be labelled "contains no milk or milk products" or an equivalent phrase.
The declaration of nutrition information shall contain the following information which should be in the following order: a) the amount of energy, expressed in kilocalories (kcal) and/or kilojoules (kJ), and the number of grams of protein, carbohydrate and fat per 100 grams or per 100 millilitres of the food as sold as well as per 100 millilitres of the food ready for use, when prepared according to the instructions on the label. Formula for special medical purposes intended for infants shall be labelled with complete nutrition labelling according to Section 4.2 of Standard for the Labelling of and Claims for Foods for Special Medical Purposes (CXS 180-1991).
The products shall be labelled in such a way as to avoid any risk of confusion between infant formula, follow-up formula, and formula for special medical purposes.
Where practicable, storage instructions shall be in close proximity to the date marking.
Adequate directions for the appropriate preparation and handling should be in accordance with good hygienic practice.
Adequate directions for the appropriate preparations and use of the product, including its storage and disposal after preparation, i.e. that formula remaining after feeding should be discarded, shall appear on the label and in any accompanying leaflet.
The label shall carry clear graphic instructions illustrating the method of preparation of the product.
The directions should be accompanied by a warning about the health hazards of inappropriate preparation, storage and use.
Adequate directions regarding the storage of the product after the container has been opened, shall appear on the label and in any accompanying leaflet.
Each container label shall have a clear, conspicuous and easily readable message which includes the following points: a) the words "important notice" or their equivalent; b) the statement "Breastmilk is the best food for your baby" or a similar statement as to the superiority of breastfeeding or breastmilk; and c) a statement that the product should only be used on advice of an independent health worker as to the need for its use and the proper method of use.
Information shall appear on the label to the effect that infants should receive complementary foods in addition to the formula, from an age that is appropriate for their specific growth and development needs, as advised by an independent health worker, and in any case from the age over 6 months.
1.4 The application of this section of the standard should take into account, as appropriate for the products to which the section applies and the special needs of the infants for whom they are intended, the recommendations made in the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes (WHO, 1981),2 the Global Strategy for Infant and Young Child Feeding and World Health Assembly resolution WHA54.2 (2001).3
In addition to the requirements in Section 3.1.3 the following requirements shall also be taken into account, where appropriate: Chromium Unit Minimum Maximum GUL bcg/100 kcal 1.5 - 10 bcg/100 kJ 0.4 - 2.4
All ingredients and food additives shall be gluten free.
Their use shall be demonstrated by scientific evidence to be beneficial in the dietary management of the infants for whom it is intended.
The energy content and nutrient composition of formula for special medical purposes intended for infants shall be based on the requirements for infant formula as given in Sections A 3.1.2 and 3.1.3, except for the compositional provisions which must be modified to meet the special nutritional requirements arising from the disease(s), disorder(s) or medical condition(s) for whose dietary management the product is specifically formulated, labelled and presented.
Products made from buffalo milk shall be salted in cold brine.
The milk used in the manufacture of the products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels for contaminants and toxins specified for milk by the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995) and with the maximum residue limits for veterinary drug residues and pesticides established for milk by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) and the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999), the following specific provisions apply:
When the product undergoes substantial transformation in a second country, the country in which the transformation is performed shall be considered to be the country of origin for the purpose of labelling.
The milk fat content shall be declared in a manner found acceptable in the country of retail sale, either (i) as a percentage by mass, (ii) as a percentage of fat in dry matter, or (iii) in grams per serving as quantified in the label, provided that the number of servings is stated.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the bananas must be: - whole (taking the finger as the reference); - sound; produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean; practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; - practically free of damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage, and bananas packed under modified atmosphere conditions; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste; - firm; - free of damage caused by low temperatures; - practically free of bruises; - free of malformation or abnormal curvature of the fingers; - with pistils removed; and - with the stalk intact, without bending, fungal damage or desiccation. In addition, hands and clusters must include: - a sufficient portion of the crown of normal colouring, sound and free of fungal contamination; and - a cleanly cut crown, not bevelled or torn, with no stalk fragments.
Bananas are classified in three classes defined below:
The fingers must be free of defects, with the exception of very slight superficial defects, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality, and presentation in the package.
The minimum length should not be less than 14 cm and the minimum grade not less than 2.7 cm.
The visible part of the contents of the package must be representative of the entire contents.
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the following specific provisions apply:
The produce covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The produce should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
Each package must bear the following particulars, in letters grouped on the same side, legibly and indelibly marked, and visible from the outside, or in the documents accompanying the shipment.
Packages must be free of all foreign matter and smell.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety.
In situations where a representative commodity does not meet all three of the above principles, a representative commodity should at least meet the first two principles (likely to contain the highest residues and also major in terms of production and/or consumption).
The ALARA 3 principle should be considered in terms of whether the larger residue data set should be combined and the potential impact of derived values used in the dietary risk assessment.
One cultivar of large variety Tomato and one cultivar of small variety Tomato and Sweet Pepper and Chili pepper and One cultivar of large variety eggplant and/or tomato and one cultivar of small variety eggplant and/or tomato Fruiting vegetables, other than Cucurbits (VO 0050): African eggplant; Bush tomato; Cherry tomato; Cocona; Currant tomato; Eggplant; Garden huckleberry; Goji berry; Ground cherries, Martynia; Okra; Pea eggplant; Peppers, Chili; Peppers, sweet; Roselle; Scarlet eggplant; Sunberry; Tomatillo; Tomato; Thai eggplant
This implies that all communication from the member country to the commission and vice versa, as well as within national authorities, goes through the Codex Contact Point.
However, it is common practice for the government to take up responsibility for hosting the national Codex Contact Point.
It is desirable that the location meets the following criteria: - that it is as neutral as possible as regards all interested parties’ involvement in Codex work; - that it is capable of performing the tasks of the Codex Contact Point; - that it is accessible to all parties interested and/or those involved in the activities of Codex.
Representatives from all relevant national bodies, including consumers’ organizations, professional associations, etc. should be invited to attend meetings of the National Codex Committee to put forward their views for consideration and inclusion in the national negotiating position.
Participation in Committee meetings should be reviewed annually, and new members appointed to replace inactive members.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the longans must be: whole; sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; practically free of damage caused by pests; free of abnormal external moisture, excluding top icing condensation following removal from cold storage; free of any foreign smell and/or taste1; fresh in appearance; free of damage caused by low and/or high temperatures; free of pronounced blemishes.
They must be free of defects, with the exception of very slight superficial defects, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package.
Longans shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
The longans must be presented under one of the following forms:
In this case, the pedicel must be cut at the first knot and the maximum length of the stalk must not exceed 5 mm beyond the top of the fruit.
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the following specific provisions apply:
The produce covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995).
The produce covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The certified Morinda citrifolia reference material should be from the same part of the plant as the samples to be analysed.
Commodity Provision Method Principle Type All foods Acesulfame K, Aspartame EN 12856 High performance liquid chromatography II All foods Cyclamate EN 12857 High performance liquid chromatography II All foods Cyclamate NMKL 123 Spectrophotometry III All foods Saccharin EN 12856 High performance liquid chromatography III All foods (see also meat products) Nitrates and/or nitrites EN 12014-1 Part 1- General considerations N/A Individual foodsi Sulphites EN 1988-1 AOAC 990.28 Part 1: Optimized Monier-Williams method III Individual foodsii Sulphites EN 1988-2 NMKL 135 Part 2: Enzymatic method III
Commodity Provision Method Principle Type Certain pulses (soybeans) Moisture ISO 665 Gravimetry (oven drying at 103 oC) I Certain pulses except soybeans Moisture ISO 24557/AACC 44-17.01 Gravimetry (oven drying at 130 oC) Degermed maize (corn) meal and maize (corn) grits Ash AOAC 923.03 ISO 2171 ICC 104/1 Gravimetry I Degermed maize (corn) meal and maize (corn) grits Fat, crude AOAC 945.38F and 920.39C and ICC 11/1 Calculation from moisture and Gravimetry (ether extraction) I Degermed maize (corn) meal and maize (corn) grits Moisture ICC 110/1 Gravimetry (oven drying at 130  C    133 oC) I
Whole and decorticated pearl millet grains Fat, crude AOAC 945.38F and 920.39C and ISO 712/ ICC 110/1 Calculation from moisture and gravimetry (ether extraction) I Whole and decorticated pearl millet grains Fibre, crude ISO 5498 and ISO 712 / ICC 110/1 Calculation from moisture and gravimetry (filtration through filter paper) I Whole and decorticated pearl millet grains Moisture ISO 712 ICC 110/1 Gravimetry (oven drying 130 ºC – 133 oC) I v Sieve specifications as in ISO 3310/1. Commodity Provision Method Principle Type Whole and decorticated pearl millet grains Protein ISO 20483 and ISO 712 / ICC 110/1 Calculation from moisture and titrimetry (Kjeldahl digestion) Whole maize (corn) meal Ash AOAC 923.03 ISO 2171 ICC 104/1 Gravimetry Whole maize (corn) meal Fat, crude AOAC 945.38F and 920.39C and ICC 110/1 Calculation from moisture and gravimetry (ether extraction) Whole maize (corn) meal Moisture ICC 110/1 ISO 6540 Gravimetry (oven drying 130 ºC – 133 oC) Whole maize (corn) meal Particle size (granularity) AOAC 965.22vi Sieving Whole maize (corn) meal Protein ICC 105/2 and ICC 110/1 Calculation from moisture and titrimetry (Kjeldahl digestion) vi Sieve specifications as in ISO 3310/1.
Fatty acid composition AOCS Ce 2c-66 and AOCS Ce 1i-07 / AOCS Ce 1j-07 Preparation of methyl esters and gas chromatography Fatty acid composition ISO 12966-2 and ISO 12966-4 Preparation of methyl esters and gas chromatography
Gravimetry I Quick-frozen fish sticks (fish fingers) and fish portions – breaded or in batter Sodium chloride AOAC 971.27 (Codex general method) Potentiometry II Salted Atlantic herring and salted sprat Water content AOAC 950.46B Air drying I Salted fish of the Gadidae family Salt Described in CXS 167-1989 Titrimetry (Mohr) Salt determined as chloride expressed as sodium chloride I
Where toxin analogues that are not listed in Table 2 are determined the competent authority must assess the contribution of these analogues to total toxicity whilst conducting further investigations.
NMKL 167 HPLC-UV III Infant formula Vitamin D AOAC 995.05 D2 and D3 measured HPLC-UV III Infant formula Vitamin D AOAC 2016.05 / ISO 20636 LC-MS II Commodity Provision Method Principle Type Infant formula Vitamin E AOAC 992.03 Measures all rac-vitamin E (both natural + supplemental ester forms) aggregated and quantified as α-congeners HPLC III Commodity Provision Method Principle Type Infant formula Vitamin E EN 12822 (Measures vitamin E (both natural + supplemental ester forms) aggregated and quantified as individual tocopherol congeners (α, β, γ, δ)) HPLC II Infant formula Vitamin E AOAC 2012.10 / ISO 20633 HPLC II Infant formula Vitamin B6 AOAC 2015.14 / ISO 21470 Enzymatic digestion and UHPLC-MS/MS II Infant formula Vitamin B6 AOAC 985.32 Microbioassay III Infant formula Vitamin B6 EN 14166 (Aggregates free and bound pyridoxal, pyridoxine and pyridoxamine and measures as pyridoxine) Microbioassay III Infant formula Vitamin B6 AOAC 2004.07 EN 14164 (Free and bound phosphorylated forms (pyridoxal, pyridoxine and pyridoxamine) converted and measured as pyridoxine) HPLC III Infant formula Vitamin B12 AOAC 986.23 (Measures total vitamin B12 as cyanocobalamin) Turbidimetric method III Infant formula Vitamin B12 AOAC 2011.10 / ISO 20634 HPLC II Infant formula Vitamin K AOAC 2015.09 / ISO 21446 HPLC-FLD II Infant formula Zinc AOAC 2015.06 / ISO 21424 | IDF 243 ICP-MS II Infant formula Zinc AOAC 2011.14 / ISO 15151 | IDF 229 ICP emission spectroscopy III Infant formula Zinc AOAC 985.35 Flame atomic absorption spectroscopy III
The ML also applies to fresh or frozen fish intended for further processing.
Processed meat and poultry products Fat ISO 1443 Gravimetry I Processed meat and poultry products Lead AOAC 934.07 Colorimetry (dithizone) II Processed meat and poultry products Nitrates ISO 3091 Colorimetry (cadmium reduction) II Processed meat and poultry products Nitrites ISO 2918 Colorimetry IV Processed meat and poultry products Tin AOAC 985.16 (Codex general method) Atomic absorption spectrophotometry II Processed meat and poultry products Nitrogen/protein ISO 937 Titrimetry II Bouillons and consommés (soups and broths) Amino nitrogen AIIBP Method No 2/7 Volumetry (modified Van Slyke) II Bouillons and consommés (soups and broths) Creatinine AIIBP Method No 2/5 HPLC II Bouillons and consommés (soups and broths) Nitrogen, total AOAC 928.08 Kjeldahl II Bouillons and consommés (soups and broths) Sodium chloride AIIBP Method No 2/4 Potentiometric titration (chloride expressed as sodium chloride) II Canned corned beef Lead AOAC 972.25 (Codex general method) Atomic absorption spectrophotometry II Canned corned beef Nitrites, potassium and/or sodium salt AOAC 973.31 (Codex general method) Colorimetry II Commodity Provisions Method Principle Type Canned corned beef Nitrites, potassium and/or sodium salt ISO 2918 Colorimetry IV Canned corned beef Tin (products in tinplate and other containers) AOAC 985.16 (Codex general method) Atomic absorption spectrophotometry II Cooked cured chopped meat Fat ISO 1443 Gravimetry (extraction) I Cooked cured chopped meat Lead AOAC 972.25 (Codex general method) Atomic absorption spectrophotometry II Cooked cured chopped meat Nitrites AOAC 973.31 (Codex general method) Colorimetry II Cooked cured chopped meat Nitrites ISO 2918 Colorimetry IV Cooked cured chopped meat Tin AOAC 985.16 (Codex general method) Atomic absorption spectrophotometry II Cooked cured ham Fat ISO 1443 Gravimetry (extraction) I Cooked cured ham Gelatin, added Described in the standard Calculation I Cooked cured ham Lead AOAC 972.25 (Codex general method) Atomic absorption spectrophotometry II Cooked cured ham Nitrites AOAC 973.31 (Codex general method) Colorimetry II Cooked cured ham Nitrites ISO 2918 Colorimetry IV Cooked cured ham Protein (conversion factor 6.25) ISO 937 Titrimetry, Kjeldahl digestion II Cooked cured ham Tin AOAC 985.16 (Codex general method) Atomic absorption spectrophotometry II Cooked cured pork shoulder Fat ISO 1443 Gravimetry (extraction) I Cooked cured pork shoulder Gelatin, added Described in the standard Calculation I Cooked cured pork shoulder Lead AOAC 972.25 (Codex general method) Atomic absorption spectrophotometry II Commodity Provisions Method Principle Type Cooked cured pork shoulder Nitrites AOAC 973.31 (Codex general method) Colorimetry II Cooked cured pork shoulder Nitrites ISO 2918 Colorimetry IV Cooked cured pork shoulder Protein ISO 937 Titrimetry, Kjeldahl digestion II Cooked cured pork shoulder Tin AOAC 985.16 (Codex general method) Atomic absorption spectrophotometry II Luncheon meat Fat ISO 1443 Gravimetry (extraction) I Luncheon meat Lead AOAC 972.25 (Codex general method) Atomic absorption spectrophotometry II Luncheon meat Nitrites, potassium and/or sodium salt AOAC 973.31 (Codex general method) Colorimetry II Luncheon meat Nitrites, potassium and/or sodium salt ISO 2918 Colorimetry IV Luncheon meat Tin AOAC 985.16 (Codex general method) Atomic absorption spectrophotometry II Quick-frozen fruits and vegetables Commodity Provisions Method Principle Type Quick-frozen fruits and vegetables(non-glazed) Net weight AOAC 963.26 Weighing I Quick-frozen fruits and vegetables Thawing procedure See Appendix X Thawing I Quick-frozen fruits and vegetables: berries, leek and carrot Mineral impurities AOAC 971.33 Gravimetry I Quick-frozen fruits and vegetables: berries, whole kernel corn and corn-on-the-cob Soluble solids, total AOAC 932.12 Refractometry I
Quick-frozen fruits and vegetables: peaches and berries Drained fruit/drained berries AOAC 953.15 Draining I Quick-frozen fruits and vegetables: vegetables Cooking procedure See Appendix XI Cooking I Quick-frozen French-fried potatoes Moisture AOAC 984.25 Gravimetry (convection oven) I Quick-frozen green and wax beans Tough strings See Appendix IV Stretching I Quick-frozen peas Solids, alcohol insoluble See Appendix XII Gravimetry I Quick-frozen spinach Dry matter, Sodium chloride-free See Appendix XIII Weighing I
Commodity Provisions Method Principle Type Cumin Moisture ISO 939 Distillation I Cumin Total ash ISO 928 Gravimetry I Cumin Acid-insoluble ash ISO 930 Gravimetry I Cumin Volatile oils ISO 6571 Distillation/Volumetric I Cumin Extraneous vegetable matter ISO 927 Visual examination/Gravimetry I Cumin Foreign matter ISO 927 Visual examination/Gravimetry I
Spray N2 gas on extract in the flask to remove all petroleum ether.
Dilute 8 parts by volume of reagent under Section 2.1 to 9.5 parts by volume with H2O.
Put 25 mL solution into Erlenmeyer flask, add 2 to 3 drops of bromothymol blue indicator and titrate with 0.05 mol/L alcoholic potassium hydroxide solution until colour of solution change to faint blue. Calculation: Factor of molarity = (g amidosulfuric acid × purity × 25) / 1.2136 / mL KOH (b) Alcohol-ether mixture: equal volumes ethanol (99.5%) and ether. (c) Phenolphthalein solution: 1% in alcohol.
Perform blank test using only alcohol-ether mixture and phenolphthalein solution.
Calculate using following equation: Acid value [mg/g] = (mL test portion – mL blank) × factor of molarity × 2.806 / g test portion
Oil extracted from noodle is dissolved in alcohol-ether mixture and titrated with alcoholic KOH standard solution.
Remove a small portion of the endosperm and place on glass slide; Using a spatula grind the material with 95% (v/v) ethanol; Add a drop of glycerine, place cover glass on material and examine under microscope.
Report loss in weight as moisture (indirect method).
Identify deacetylasperulosidic in samples by comparing spot Rf values and colour with reference standard solution on same TLC plate.
Record the weight of this test sample.
Remove the strings from the pods and retain the pod material for weighing.
Grasp the other end of the string with the fingers (a cloth may be used to aid in holding the string) and lift gently.
Consequently, rapid thawing under controlled conditions is most desirable in preparing the product for laboratory examination.
Then repeat operation 7.3.2.
Record the lowest mass.
Weigh the bean units which contain tough strings.
The determination is carried out by spreading 100 g of the sample in a thin layer against a white background and counting the extraneous material with the naked eye.
Calculate the percentage of defects: defective %100sample of weight Total unites defective ofWeight =x
(6) To determine Volume Fill, calculate: Pickle Ingredient Displacement Total Capacity (volume) of Container (see Method E) percent volume of pickle ingredientx100 =
To determine ‘volume fill’, calculate: Where, V1=Total capacity (volume) of container; and V2=Volume of drained water from (3) above.
The identity of the sample and the thawing procedure used should be recorded.
The vegetable is removed from the pack and thawed by immersion in water at a temperature not exceeding 30 6C. As soon as the product is thawed sufficiently to permit easy separation of the individual units, it is drained on a suitable screen to remove excess water and placed on a tray for final air thawing and examination.
Express the result, after deducting salt from total dry matter, as salt-free dry matter.
The test sample should be tested as soon as possible.
Evaporate the whole extracted solution (mixture of solutions A and B) on the rotary evaporator in vacuum less than 40 oC.
The principal starter culture micro-organisms shall be Lactobacillus helveticus, Streptococcus salivarius subsp. thermophilus, Lactobacillusdelbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus and Lactobacillus casei.
The milk used in the manufacture of the products covered by this Standard shall comply with the Maximum Levels for contaminants and toxins specified for milk by the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995) and with the maximum residue limits for veterinary drug residues and pesticides established for milk by the CAC.
It is recommended that the product covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), the Code of Hygienic Practice for Milk and Milk Products (CXC 57-2004) and other relevant Codex texts such as Codes of Hygienic Practice and Codes of Practice The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
The milk fat content shall be declared in a manner found acceptable in the country of retail sale either (i) as a percentage by mass, (ii) as a percentage of fat in dry matter, or (iii) in grams per serving as quantified in the label, provided that the number of servings is stated.
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999) relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
Harvesting should be done at the appropriate time because studies have shown increased cyanide in late harvested cassava.
Peeling is carried out to remove the outer inedible parts of the root; these are known to contain most of the cyanogenic glycosides.
Fermentation is carried out in tanks or other suitable fermentation vessels for 3-4 days.
Conditions of severe drought during planting should be avoided or minimized through cultivation practices such as wetting, and conditions leading to high moisture content should also be avoided.
Selection of cassava Roots : Cassava roots for the preparation of cassava products should be processed as soon as practicable after harvest.
Ensure that the peels including rinds (inedible part) are completely removed; they are known to contain very high concentrations of cyanogenic glycosides which can be toxic.
Wash the peeled roots in water at least twice to remove pieces of the peel, sand and other dirt.
Grating should be properly done using stainless steel equipment to rupture the cassava tissue for a fast breakdown of cyanogenic glycosides.
should have access to materials with information on the specific recommendations based on Good Manufacturing Practice and guidance on methods for reducing residual cyanogens in cassava products.
The product shall have a characteristic odour, flavour and colour which may vary depending on geo -climatic factors/conditions, and shall be free from any foreign odour, flavour and colour, especially from rancidity and mustiness.
Saffron powder shall be safe and suitable for human consumption, free from living insects and practically free from extraneous and foreign matter in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
When saffron is traded as unclassified/ungraded, the provisions for grade III/class III shall apply as the minimum requirements.
5.2 The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
6.2 The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and guidelines for the establishment and application of microbiological criteria related to foods (CXG 21-1997)4.
Containers should be as full as practicable without impairment of quality and shall be consistent with a proper declaration of contents for the product.
In addition, the following specific provisions apply:
8.2.1 The name of the product shall be “dried saffron” as described in Section 2.1. 8.2.2 The name of the product may include an indication of the style as described in Section 2.2. 8.2.3 Variety or cultivar may be listed on the label.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General standard for the labelling of non-retail containers of foods (CXS 346-2021)6.
– Requirements for an imported food inspection programme based on risk should be developed using a risk analysis approach, and should not be applied arbitrarily or in a discriminatory manner, and should not result in unjustified barriers to trade or unnecessary delays.
– appoint authorised officers; – require prior notification of the importation of a consignment of a foodstuff; – require documentation; – inspect, including the authority to enter premises within the importing country, physically examine the food and its packaging; collect samples and initiate analytical testing; inspection of documentation provided by an exporting country authority, exporter or importer; and verification of product identity against documentary attestations; – apply risk-based sampling plans, taking into consideration the compliance history of the particular food, the validity of accompanying certification, and other relevant information; – charge fees for the inspection of consignments and sample analysis; – recognize accredited or accredit laboratories; – accept; reject; detain; destroy; order to destroy; order reconditioning, processing, or re-export; return to country of export; designate as non-food use; – recall consignments following importation; – retain control over consignments in transit during intra-national transport or during storage prior to import clearance; and, – implement administrative and/or judicial measures when the specific requirements are not satisfied.
17. Control of imported food by the importing country can be conducted at one or more points including the points of:
12. In the design and operation of food import control systems, precedence should be given to protecting the health of consumers and ensuring fair practices in food trade over economic or other trade considerations.
Such recognition should, as appropriate, include controls applied during the production, manufacture, importation, processing, storage, and transportation of the food products, and verification of the export food control system applied.
– The compliance history of the food with respect to the source of the food including, where available, the compliance history of: • the exporting country or region/area within an exporting country; • the producer and manufacturer; • the exporter; • the shipper; and • the importer. – Reports from officially recognized inspection and/or certification bodies.
Programmes and training manuals should be developed and implemented to assure uniform application at all points of entry and by all inspection staff.
The application of controls by the exporting country, during production, manufacture and subsequent transit should be encouraged, with the aim of identifying and correcting problems when and where they occur, and preferably before costly recalls of food already in distribution are required.
Control should be designed to account for factors such as: – the risk to human health posed by the product or its packaging; – the likelihood of non-compliance with requirements; – the target consumer group; – the extent and nature of any further processing of the product; – food inspection and certification system in the exporting country and existence of any equivalence, mutual recognition agreements or other trade agreements; and, – history of conformity of producers, processors, manufacturers, exporters, importers and distributors.
Decision criteria (without prejudice to the application of customs procedures) should be developed that determine whether consignments are given: – acceptance; – entry if cleared upon inspection or verification of conformance; – release of non-conforming product after re-conditioning and/or corrective measures have been taken; – rejection notice, with redirecting product for uses other than human consumption; – rejection notice, with re-exportation option or return to country of export option at exporter expense; – rejection notice with destruction order.
Documentation of a food import control system should include:
Training, communication, and supervisory elements should be organised to provide consistent implementation of requirements by the inspectorate throughout the food import control system.
Verification should be carried out on the basis of Section 9 of the Guidelines for the Design, Operation, Assessment and Accreditation of Food Import and Export Inspection and Certification Systems (CAC/GL 26-1997) and the food import control system should be independently assessed on a regular basis.
3. This document should be read in conjunction with all relevant Codex guidelines.
17. Competent authorities should take into account Codex standards, recommendations, and guidelines, in developing requirements for border/point of control checks of imported food and make use, when available, of: – Relevant information from risk assessments conducted according to internationally recognized protocols for the biological, chemical, and physical hazards associated with the type of food. – Internationally accepted or scientifically based sampling plans, to the extent possible. – Appropriate inspection procedures, appropriate sampling techniques, and official or officially accredited laboratories using validated analytical methods.
When the results of border/point of control checks indicate failure of a shipment to meet the requirements of the importing country, competent authorities of the importing countries should consider action as described in the Codex Guidelines for the Exchange of Information Between Countries on Rejection of Imported Food (CAC/GL 25-1997) or in the Codex Principles and Guidelines for the Exchange of Information in Food Safety Emergency Situations (CAC/GL 19-1995).
Competent authorities of the importing country should ensure adequate laboratory competency, capability and capacity is available to conduct the testing of imported food.
They include ante- and post-mortem inspection, control of hazards in feed, biosecurity at the animal production level, and the control of antimicrobial resistance in animals.
c) Social animals transported in established pairs or groups should be maintained in these on arrival.
Texto explicativo detalhado do título 7).
It should also include corrective actions to address specific risks, for example, power failures or other circumstances that could negatively affect the welfare of reptiles.
In the case of diseases transmitted by vectors, the measures taken against such vectors shall also be specified.
For each event notified, a final report should be submitted; 3) six-monthly reports on the absence or presence and evolution of listed diseases and information of epidemiological significance to other Member Countries; 4) annual reports concerning any other information of significance to other Member Countries.
Veterinary Authorities shall, under the responsibility of the Delegate, send to the Headquarters: 1) a notification through WAHIS or by fax or email, when an emerging disease has been detected in a country, a zone or a compartment; 2) periodic reports subsequent to a notification of an emerging disease: a) for the time necessary to have reasonable certainty that: i) the infection or infestation has been eradicated; or ii) the situation has become stable; OR b) until sufficient scientific information is available to determine whether it meets the criteria for inclusion in the WOAH list as described in Chapter 1.2.; 3) a final report once point 2 a) or 2 b) above has been complied with.
The following points should be addressed: the characteristics of the specified pathogenic agents that are of concern to the Veterinary Authority of the importing country.
The design of the surveillance system should include consideration of what actions will be taken on the basis of the information generated.
The results should be interpreted using sensitivity and specificity values that have been determined or estimated for that particular pool size and testing procedure.
Factors influencing the quality of collected data include: – the distribution of, and communication between, those involved in generating and transferring data from the field to a centralised location; this requires effective collaboration among all stakeholders, such as government or non-governmental organisations, and others, particularly for data involving wildlife; – the ability of the data processing system to detect missing, inconsistent or inaccurate data, and to address these problems; – maintenance of raw data rather than the compilation of summary data; – minimisation of transcription errors during data processing and communication.
Handling, restraining, stunning and killing methods should take into account the following characteristics of reptiles: – sensitivity and responsiveness to visual, tactile, auditory, olfactory and vibrational stimuli; – ability to escape handling and restraint because of their agility and strength; – ability to inflict significant injuries to handlers, via bite wounds, wound infection, constriction, blunt trauma or envenomation; – slow movements, torpor and reduced responsiveness due to low body temperatures or slow metabolic rates, which should not be regarded as indicators of quiescence or unconsciousness; – absence of vocalisation, which is typical in reptiles, even in highly traumatic situations; – propensity to regurgitate and choke when restrained inappropriately.
If so, provide details of the measures that are applied (e.g. vaccination, intensified surveillance, density control of susceptible species), and provide a geo-referenced map of the zones.
It should be under the control of the Veterinary Authority and should include the following:
Electronic certificates should be implemented, wherever possible.
Protection from adverse climatic conditions should be provided in completely outdoors systems.
Containers or apparatus should not be overcrowded and measures are needed to avoid animals suffocating by climbing on top of each other.
Date (dd/mm/yy) Name (in capital letters) and signature of the Certifying Veterinarian (see note 6)
The dossier and all of its annexes should be provided in one of the WOAH official languages.
These instruments may be provided as annexes or as weblinks to supporting documents.
Indicate whether there are any industry associations or organisations involved in bovine identification, registration, traceability and movement control systems that provide guidance, set standards or provide third party audits; include a description of their role, membership and interaction with the Veterinary Services or relevant Competent Authorities.
Describe the intended end use of the imported commodities, for example: bovines may be imported for breeding or immediate slaughter;
Indicate if detailed operational guidelines exist and give a brief summary.
The following information should be provided by WOAH Member Countries to support applications for official recognition of status as a country where vaccination is practised that is free from infection with foot and mouth disease (FMD) virus in accordance with Chapter 8.8. of the Terrestrial Code.
In addition, the Delegate of the Member Country must submit the detailed national official control programme for FMD.
The progressive reduction of outbreak incidence towards elimination of FMD virus transmission in all susceptible livestock in at least one zone of the country should also be measured and monitored.
This should include documented evidence of the effective implementation of Sections 3 d) and 3 e) above.
In addition, the Delegate of the Member Country must submit the detailed national official control programme for PPR.
This component should comprise the following specific elements:
This component should comprise the following specific elements: 1) animal welfare programmes, supported by suitable legislation, with appropriate stakeholder and public awareness and compliance inspection activities; 2) communication, consultation and coordination with stakeholders.
This component should comprise the following specific elements: 1) sanitary measures developed and implemented in accordance with Chapter 2.1. and other relevant chapters of the Terrestrial Code; 2) effective implementation of official veterinary controls to prevent the entry of diseases and other hazards through effective border inspection and quarantine operations, in accordance with Chapter 5.6.; 3) effective application of relevant animal health measures at or before departure for exports, during transit through the country, and on arrival for imports, in accordance with Chapters 5.4., 5.5. and 5.7.; 4) effective development and implementation of international veterinary certification for animals, animal products, services and processes for export under their mandate, in accordance with importing country requirements and relevant chapters in Section 5.; 5) effective development, implementation and maintenance of equivalence and other types of sanitary agreements with trading partners, where applicable, in collaboration with national stakeholders, and in accordance with Chapter 5.3.; 6) regular and timely official notification to WOAH, World Trade Organization, trading partners and other relevant organisations of changes in animal disease status, regulations and sanitary measures and systems, in accordance with the procedures established by these organisations, including Chapters 1.1. and 1.3.;
Veterinary legislation should respect the hierarchy between primary legislation and secondary legislation, to ensure that the primary legislation provides the legal basis for the application and enforcement of the secondary legislation.
Competent Authorities should appoint technically qualified officials to take any actions needed for implementation, review and verification of compliance with the veterinary legislation, respecting the principles of independence and impartiality prescribed in Article 3.2.2.
To this end, the legislation should: a) provide for the creation of a veterinary statutory body; b) describe the prerogatives, functioning and responsibilities of the veterinary statutory body; c) describe the general structure and system of regulation of veterinarians and veterinary paraprofessionals by the veterinary statutory body; and d) give authority to the veterinary statutory body to provide principles for or regulate the following matters: i) various professional categories of veterinarians (e.g. specialisations) and categories of veterinary paraprofessionals recognised in the country in accordance with its needs, notably in animal health, animal welfare and food safety; ii) prerogatives of the various professional categories of veterinarians (e.g. specialisations) and categories of veterinary paraprofessionals that are recognised in the country; iii) minimum initial and continuous educational requirements and competencies for the various professional categories of veterinarians (e.g. specialisations) and categories of veterinary paraprofessionals; iv) conditions for recognition of the qualifications for veterinarian and veterinary paraprofessional; v) conditions for performing the activities of veterinary medicine/science, including the extent of supervision for each category of veterinary paraprofessionals; vi) powers to deal with issues of conduct and competence, including licensing requirements and mechanisms to appeal, that apply to veterinarians and veterinary paraprofessionals; vii) conditions (except those that are under the responsibility of the Competent Authority ) under which persons other than veterinarians can undertake activities that are normally carried out by veterinarians. 2) In the event that a Member Country is yet to create a veterinary statutory body for the regulation of veterinarians and veterinary paraprofessionals, the legislation should at least address all the elements listed in paragraphs 1(d)(i) to 1(d)(vii) to ensure quality in the conduct of veterinary medicine/science.
Reagents, diagnostic kits and biological agents and products Veterinary legislation should provide a basis for actions to address the following elements: a) procedures for authorising the use and transfer of reagents, diagnostic kits and biological agents and products that are used to perform official analyses and other purposes approved by the Competent Authority; b) quality assurance by manufacturers and providers of reagents used in official analyses and for other purposes approved by the Competent Authority; and c) oversight of marketing of reagents, diagnostic kits and biological agents and products where these can affect the quality of analyses required by the veterinary legislation.
Veterinary legislation should provide a basis for assuring the quality, safety and effectiveness of veterinary medicinal products and minimising the risk to human, animal and environmental health associated with their use, including the development of antimicrobial resistance, as described in Chapters 6.7. to 6.11.
Veterinary legislation should provide a basis for actions to address the elements referred to in Section 2 Risk Analysis and Section 5 Trade measures, import/export procedures and veterinary certification.
Any proposed use of combinations of antimicrobial agents should be scientifically supported.
Documentation requirements should be clearly defined and standardised, in accordance with the scope, performance criteria and desired outcomes and supported by the legal framework.
Depending on the scope, performance criteria and desired outcomes, relevant information (such as animal identification, movement, events, changes in numbers of livestock, establishments) should be reported to the Veterinary Authority by the person responsible for the animals.
The Veterinary Authority should have access to this information system as appropriate to meet the scope, performance criteria and desired outcomes.
The results of diagnostic tests should record the animal identifier or the group identifier, the date of sample was taken from the animal and the establishment where the sample was collected.
To gain free status in an infected zone, or regain free status following an outbreak in a previously free zone, Member Countries should follow the recommendations in the relevant chapters of the Terrestrial Code.
The management of a compartment should provide to the Veterinary Authority documented evidence on the following:
All relevant information should be recorded in a transparent manner and be easily accessible so as to be auditable by the Veterinary Authority.
The authority, organisation, and infrastructure of the Veterinary Services , including laboratories, should be clearly documented in accordance with Chapter 3.3., to provide confidence in the integrity of the compartment.
Where seminal plasma, or components thereof, is added to sorted semen prior to cryopreservation and storage, it should be derived from animals that meet the same health requirements.
The names of the antibiotics and their concentration should be recorded.
c) Sometimes, for example when inactivation or removal of certain viruses, such as bovine herpesvirus-1 and Aujeszky's disease virus, is required, the standard washing procedure should be modified to include additional washes with the enzyme trypsin, as described in the Manual of the IETS. d) The zona pellucida of each embryo, after washing, should be examined over its entire surface area at not less than 50X magnification to ensure that it is intact and free of adherent material.
Embryos should not be exported until the appropriate veterinary certificates are completed.
The embryo production team should be subjected to regular inspection at least once a year by an Official Veterinarian to ensure compliance with procedures for the sanitary collection and processing of oocytes and the production and storage of embryos.
3) All equipment used to recover, handle, culture, wash, freeze and store oocytes or embryos should be new or cleaned and sterilised prior to use as recommended in the Manual of the IETS.
These include the following: a) oocytes and embryos should be washed between each stage of production; b) after the in vitro culture period is finished the embryos should be washed at least 10 times with at least 100–fold dilutions between each wash, and a fresh pipette should be used for transferring the embryos through each wash; c) only embryos from the same donor (in the case of individual collection) or from the same batch (in the case of batch collection) should be washed together, and no more than ten embryos should be washed at any one time;
When micromanipulation of the embryos is to be carried out, this should be done after completion of the treatments described in point 2 of Article 4.9.6. and conducted in accordance with Chapter 4.10.
However, to bring micromanipulated oocytes or embryos within the scope of the above mentioned chapters, the following conditions should apply.
To maintain health status during and after micromanipulation, the following conditions should apply:
2) The veterinarian is responsible for certifying that the embryo handling procedures and laboratory conditions were maintained in accordance with Articles 4.11.2. and 4.11.3. 3) The veterinarian is responsible for the risk management procedures outlined in Article 4.11.4. 4) The veterinarian should authorise all embryo shipments, ensuring that the correct embryo collection records and veterinary certification documents have been completed and are included in the shipments.
These recommendations will focus initially on the scientific basis for the risk assessment aspects, prevention measures and guidance for production livestock and horses, derived from SCNT cloning and should be reviewed in light of new scientific information.
Major issues related to the disposal of dead animals include the number of animals involved, biosecurity concerns over the movement of infected or exposed animals, people and equipment, environmental concerns, and the psychological distress experienced by farmers and animal handlers.
Dairy cattle producers should seek expert advice on the most appropriate time and method of weaning for their type of cattle and production system.
Veterinary Authorities are requested to draw up regulations in their respective countries concerning the use of disinfectants and insecticides on the basis of the principles described below: 1) The choice of disinfectants and of procedures for disinfection should be made taking into account the causal agents of infection and the nature of the premises, vehicles and objects which are to be treated. 2) Disinfectants and insecticides should be authorised only after thorough tests have been carried out under field condition. 3) The following should be considered: a) few universal disinfectants exist; b) whereas hypochlorite, which is very often used, may be regarded as a universal disinfectant, its effectiveness is diminished by prolonged storage and it is therefore necessary to check its activity before use; a concentration of 0.5% active chlorine appears necessary for satisfactory disinfection; c) no matter what substances are used, disinfection techniques should comprise the following: i) thorough soaking of bedding and litter as well as faecal matter with the disinfectant; ii) washing and cleaning by careful brushing and scrubbing of the ground, floors and walls; iii) then further washing with the disinfectant; iv) washing and disinfecting the outside of vehicles; these procedures will be carried out, if possible, with liquids applied under pressure and the washing, disinfecting or destroying of articles used for tying up the animals (ropes, reins, etc.) should not be omitted.
Permanent official sanitary surveillance of apiaries should be under the authority of the Veterinary Authority or other Competent Authority and should be performed either by representatives of this Authority or by representatives of an approved organisation, with the possible assistance of bee-keepers specially trained to qualify as “health inspectors and advisers”.
Bee-keepers should: 3) immediately notify the Veterinary Authority or other Competent Authority of any suspicion of a listed disease of bees in the breeding apiary and in other epidemiologically linked apiaries; 4) not introduce into the apiary any bee (including pre-imago stages) or used apicultural equipment or product originating from another apiary unless that apiary is recognised by the Veterinary Authority or other Competent Authority to be of equivalent or higher health status or the used apicultural equipment or product has been treated in agreement with a procedure described in the relevant chapters of the Terrestrial Code; 5) apply special breeding and despatch techniques to ensure protection against any outside contamination, especially for the breeding and sending of queen-bees and accompanying bees and to enable retesting in the importing country; 6) collect at least every 30 days, during the breeding and despatch period, appropriate samples to be sent to a laboratory and all the positive results officially reported to the Veterinary Authority or other Competent Authority.
Conditions for sanitation and disinfection or disinfestation of apicultural equipment Veterinary Authorities or other Competent Authorities of countries are requested to regulate the use of products and means for sanitation and disinfection or disinfestation of apicultural equipment in their own country, taking into account the following recommendations. 1) Any apicultural equipment kept in an establishment which has been recognised as being affected with a contagious disease of bees should be subjected to procedures ensuring the elimination of pathogens. 2) In all cases, these procedures comprise the initial cleaning of the equipment, followed by sanitation or disinfection or disinfestation depending on the disease concerned. 3) Any infested or contaminated equipment which cannot be subjected to the above-mentioned procedures should be destroyed, preferably by burning.
Veterinary Authorities are encouraged to recognise the international biosecurity plan developed by the FEI and IFHA on the basis of the WOAH Handbook for the Management of High Health, High Performance Horses. NB: FIRST ADOPTED IN 2014; MOST RECENT UPDATE ADOPTED IN 2017.
Plans should be tested regularly to ensure that they are fit-for-purpose, practical, feasible and well understood, and that staff are proficient and other stakeholders are fully aware of their respective roles and responsibilities.
3) Furthermore, the specific regulations, policies, or guidance on disease control activities should include the following: – risk analysis to assess and prioritise risks, including a regularly updated list of notifiable diseases; – definitions and procedures for the reporting and management of a suspected case or a confirmed case of a listed disease or an emerging disease; – procedures for the management of establishments directly or indirectly affected by the disease; – procedures for epidemiological investigation of outbreaks including forward and backward tracing of commodities and fomites; – definitions and procedures for the declaration and management of infected zones and other zones, such as free zones , protection zones , containment zones , or less specific zones such as zones of intensified surveillance; – procedures for the collection, transport and testing of samples; – procedures for animal identification and the management of animal identification systems; – procedures for the restriction of movements, including possible standstill or compulsory veterinary certification, of relevant commodities and fomites within, to, or from given zones or establishments or other related enterprises; – procedures for the destruction or slaughter and safe disposal or processing of infected or potentially infected animals, including relevant wildlife; – procedures for collection, treatment and safe disposal of contaminated or potentially contaminated products of animal origin; – procedures for collection, treatment or safe disposal of contaminated or potentially contaminated fomites such as fodder bedding, litter, manure and waste water; – procedures for disinfection and disinsection of establishments and related premises, vehicles/vessels or equipment; – procedures of compensation for the owners of commodities, including defined standards and means of implementing such compensation; – procedures for the implementation of vaccination programmes or treatment of animals, as relevant, and for any other necessary disease control actions; – procedures for post-control surveillance and possible gain or recovery of status, as relevant.
Emergency preparedness should be supported by risk analysis, should be planned in advance, and should include capacity building and simulation exercises.
The note of guidance referred to in Article 5.1.1. is not only to inform the signing veterinarian but also to safeguard professional integrity.
Certifying veterinarians should: 1) be authorised by the Veterinary Authority of the exporting country to sign international veterinary certificates; 2) only certify matters that are within their own knowledge at the time of signing the certificate, or that have been separately attested by another competent party; 3) sign only at the appropriate time certificates that have been completed fully and correctly; where a certificate is signed on the basis of supporting documentation, the certifying veterinarian should have verified or be in possession of that documentation before signing; 4) have no conflict of interest in the commercial aspects of the animals or animal products being certified and be independent from the commercial parties.
4) The transportation of the animals for breeding or rearing or animals for slaughter from the establishment of origin to the point of departure from the exporting country should be carried out in conformity with the conditions agreed between the importing country and exporting country.
Countries exporting animals, semen, oocytes, embryos or hatching eggs should inform the country of destination and where necessary the transit countries if, after exportation, a listed disease occurs within the incubation period of that particular disease, in the establishment of origin, or in an animal which was in an establishment or in a market, at the same time as the exported animals.
Before the departure of animals, semen, oocytes, embryos, hatching eggs and brood-combs of bees, an Official Veterinarian should, within the 24 hours prior to shipment, provide an international veterinary certificate conforming with the models approved by WOAH as shown in Chapters 5.10. to 5.13. and worded in the languages agreed upon between the exporting country and the importing country, and, where necessary, with the transit countries.
2) The Veterinary Authority referred to in point 1 above should take necessary measures to: a) prevent the shipment of animals affected or suspected of being affected with any listed disease or with any other infectious disease as agreed by the importing country and the exporting country; b) avoid entry into the vehicle of possible vectors or causal agents of infection.
The importing country shall be informed of any unforeseen unloading in the transit country.
If they cannot be returned, the Veterinary Authority of the exporting country shall be informed immediately, thereby providing an opportunity for confirming the findings before destruction of the products. 3) Strict health requirements need not apply to the transit of the products mentioned above when they are transported in sealed vehicles or containers.
1) Countries and their Veterinary Authorities should, wherever possible, take the necessary action to ensure that the border posts and quarantine stations in their territory should be provided with an adequate organisation and sufficient equipment for the application of the measures recommended in the Terrestrial Code. 2) Each border post and quarantine station should be provided with facilities for the feeding and watering of animals.
These should, however, comply with the conditions required by Veterinary Authorities, especially to prevent the contact between animals of different health status and the risk of introducing diseases transmitted by insects.
Each Veterinary Authority, when requested, should make available for the Headquarters and any interested country on request: 1) a list of border posts, quarantine stations, approved slaughterhouses/abattoirs and storage depots in its territory which are approved for international trade; 2) the period of time required for notice to be given for the application of the arrangements contained in point 2 of Articles 5.7.1. to 5.7.4.; 3) a list of airports in its territory which are provided with an area of direct transit, approved by the Veterinary Authority and placed under its immediate control, where animals stay for a short time pending further transport to their final destination.
In practice, a combination of external and internal controls is likely to be applied depending on the risk to animal health posed by the pathogenic agent in question.
It may be advisable to require that material is pre-treated before import to minimise the risk of inadvertent introduction of a pathogenic agent.
They should be changed often enough to remain fresh and free of organic matter.
Date of registration by the National Equestrian Federation Name of owner Address of owner Nationality of owner Signature of owner National Equestrian Federation stamp and signature of the secretary Fecha de registro por la Federación Ecuestre Nacional Nombre del propietario Dirección del propietario Nacionalidad del propietario Firma del propietario Sello de la Federación Ecuestre Nacional y firma oficial
The passport should contain:
They must be produced and maintained in a sterile environment (usually isolators) without contact with human, animal, or environmental commensal infectious microorganisms.
Food safety activities performed by Veterinary Services should be integrated to the greatest extent possible with the activities of all other responsible agencies throughout the food chain.
Veterinary Services should integrate their activities to the maximum extent practicable so as to prevent duplication of effort and unnecessary costs, e.g. within the process of international certification.
In 2006 the International Committee resolved that WOAH should develop guidance on foodborne zoonoses and animal feeding, complementing relevant CAC texts.
6. Zoning and compartmentalisation Feed is an important component of biosecurity and needs to be considered when defining a compartment or zone in accordance with Chapter 4.4.
Management should ensure that waiting times are minimised.
Those practices that have the potential to cause pain should be performed in such a way as to minimise
The Competent Authority should provide the data to the 'Animal Antimicrobial Use Global database of the World Organisation for Animal Health' on a yearly basis.
Biosecurity will be enhanced with the adoption and implementation of the principles of Good Agricultural Practices and the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) system.
When a flock is suspected or known to be infected, a veterinarian should be consulted immediately and, in addition to the general biosecurity measures described previously, management procedures should be adjusted to effectively
It should be noted that the epidemiology of animal and human salmonellosis in a particular locality, district, region or country is important for effective control of Salmonella.
If a flock is found infected with specific Salmonella serotypes of concern, the following actions should be taken in addition to general measures detailed in Chapter 6.5.:
Introduced live poultry (other than day-old birds) should: 1) originate from a flock that participates in a Salmonella surveillance programme in accordance with the recommendations in Article 6.6.4.; 2) originate from a flock in which no evidence of S. Enteritidis and S. Typhimurium has been detected prior to movement and have had no contact with birds or other material from flocks that do not comply with this chapter; 3) originate from a flock that complies with the recommendations in Chapter 6.5.
Introduced day-old birds should: 1) show no clinical sign of salmonellosis on the day of shipment; 2) originate from a breeder flock and a hatchery that participate in a Salmonella surveillance programme in accordance with the recommendations in Article 6.6.4.; 3) originate from a breeder flock and a hatchery in which no evidence of S. Enteritidis and S. Typhimurium has been detected and have had no contact during setting, incubation or hatching with hatching eggs or other material from establishments that do not comply with this chapter; 4) originate from a breeder flock and a hatchery that comply with the recommendations in Chapter 6.5.; 5) be transported in new or clean containers.
Introduced hatching eggs should: 1) originate from a breeder flock that participates in a Salmonella surveillance programme in accordance with the recommendations in Article 6.6.4.; 2) originate from a breeder flock in which no evidence of S. Enteritidis and S. Typhimurium has been detected and have had no contact with poultry or other material from establishments that do not comply with this chapter; 3) originate from a breeder flock that complies with the recommendations in Chapter 6.5.; 4) be transported in new or clean packaging materials.
The publication of these data is important to ensure transparency and to allow all interested parties to assess trends, to perform risk assessments and for risk communication purposes.
