Where the Codex Alimentarius Commission has established a standard for any such substance used as packaging materials, that standard shall apply.
The ingredients and final product should be prepared, packed, and held under sanitary conditions and should comply with relevant Codex texts.
The age from which the product is recommended for use shall appear in close proximity to the name of the food.
The list of ingredients shall be declared in accordance with Section 4.2 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).
Provisions of Sections 4.4 and 4.5 of the Standard for the Labelling of and Claims for Food for Special Medical Purposes (CXS 180-1991) shall apply.
• Exclusive breastfeeding is recommended for the first 6 months of life, and continued breastfeeding is recommended for up to 2 years or beyond.
• Feeding instructions shall be given; preferably accompanied by graphical presentations. • The time within which the product should be consumed after opening should be clearly indicated.
Avocados are classified in three classes defined below:
The development and condition of the avocados must be such as to enable them: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
If present, the stalk must be intact.
Avocados shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for the Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
7.1 The produce covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995) 7.2 The produce covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
Properly trained inspectors and personnel and an adequate sanitary infrastructure are necessary in order to implement the Code satisfactorily.
All construction materials should be such that they do not transmit any undesirable substances to the food.
Where appropriate, establishments should be designed so that access can be controlled.
Buildings and facilities should be designed to facilitate hygienic operations by means of a controlled and regulated flow in the process from the arrival of the raw material at the premises to the finished product, and should provide for appropriate temperature for the process and product.
Living quarters, toilets and areas where animals are kept should be completely separated from and should not open directly into food handling areas.
All wastepipes should be properly trapped and lead to a drain.
There should be a system to ensure an adequate supply of hot potable water.
Ice shall be made from potable water and should be manufactured, handled and stored so as to protect it from contamination.
Steam used in direct contact with food or food contact surfaces should contain no substance which may be hazardous to health or may contaminate the food.
Non-potable water used for steam production, refrigeration, fire control and other similar purposes not connected with food should be carried in completely separate lines, identifiable preferably by colour, and with no cross-connection with or back-siphonage into the system carrying potable water.
Therefore, raw foods, particularly meat, poultry, liquid egg products, fish and shellfish, must be strictly separated from prepared foods, preferably by the use of different refrigerators.
Rapid chilling or freezing of large quantities of food requires proper equipment capable of extracting the heat rapidly from the largest quantity of food likely to be produced.
The facilities should be furnished with properly trapped waste pipies leading to drains.
A dated record of such tests should be kept.
Where appropriate, the lighting should not alter colours and the intensity should not be less than: 540 lux (50 foot candles) at all food preparation and inspection points 220 lux (20 foot candles) in work rooms 110 lux (10 foot candles) in other areas. Light bulbs and fixtures suspended over food materials in any stage of production should be of a safety type and protected to prevent contamination of food in case of breakage.
These facilities should be designed to prevent access to waste or inedible material by pests and to avoid contamination of food, potable water, equipment, building or roadways on the premises.
If this is not possible, thorough cleaning and disinfection is necessary.
All equipment and utensils should be designed and constructed to prevent hygienic hazards and
Portable equipment such as spoons, beaters, pots and pans, etc., should be protected from contamination.
should be leak proof, constructed of metal or other suitable impervious material which should be easy to clean or disposable and able to be closed securely.
Appropriate records of pesticide usage should be maintained.
Records of pesticide usage should be kept and periodically checked by a responsible supervisor.
Insects and rodents are known carriers of pathogenic bacteria from areas of contamination to prepared foods and food contact surfaces therefore their presence in food preparation areas should be prevented.
Adequate first aid facilities should be provided for this purpose.
Responsibility for ensuring compliance by all personnel with all requirements of paragraphs 6.1 - 6.9 inclusive should be specifically allocated to competent supervisory personnel.
Visitors should observe the provisions recommended in paragraphs 5.8, 6.3, 6.4 and 6.7.
Raw materials or ingredients should be inspected and sorted prior to the cooking process and where
Stocks of raw materials and ingredients should be supplied frequently and regularly, and excessive quantities should not be stored.
Other raw foods which require refrigeration, such as certain vegetables, should be stored at as low a temperature as quality permits.
The possibility of cross-contamination should always be considered.
Hazard analysis should therefore include observations of food handling and hand-washing practices of the kitchen staff.
Raw fruits and vegetables to be used in meals should be thoroughly washed in potable water before addition to the meals.
Thawed meat and poultry products should be checked frequently to make sure the thawing process is complete before further processing or the processing time should be increased to take into account the temperature of the meat.
Hazard analysis must assess conditions of chilling.
The effectiveness of the cooking process should be checked regularly by measuring the temperature in the relevant parts of the foods.
Regular monitoring of the storage temperature is necessary.
The temperature of the cooked-chilled foods should be maintained at 4°C but may rise to 7°C for a short period during transport.
The temperature of the cooked-frozen food should be maintained at or below -18°C, but may rise to -12°C for a short period of time during transport.
The temperature of the food should be either below 4C or above 60C.
The total soluble solids content of the liquid extracted from the thawed, comminuted sample shall be not more than 35 percent m/m nor less than 18 percent m/m, expressed as sucrose, as determined by refractometer at 20 6C.
The total soluble solids content of the liquid extracted from the thawed, comminuted sample shall be not more than 25 percent m/m nor less than 15 percent m/m expressed as sucrose, as determined by refractometer at 20 6C.
Any sample unit that falls outside the limits for the soluble solids range specified in Sections 3.2.1 and 3.2.2 shall be regarded as a "defective".
The product shall be: (a) of similar varietal characteristics; (b) of good colour; (c) free from foreign flavour and odour; and (d) clean, sound and practically free from mould and other harmless foreign matter; and with respect to visual defects or other defects subject to a tolerance, shall be: (e) practically free from sand and grit; (f) when presented as free-flowing, practically free from berries adhering one to another and which cannot be easily separated by hand without damage when in the frozen state; (g) practically free from extraneous vegetable material; (h) reasonably free from cap stems (stalks); (i) practically free from unripe berries; (j) practically free from dissimilar varieties of edible berries other than blueberries; (k) reasonably free from blemished berries; and (l) reasonably free from undeveloped or mummified berries.
Mineral impurities such as sand, grit and silt shall be not more than 0.04 percent m/m on the whole product (berries and packing medium, if any).
The sample size for evaluating visual defects, including application of tolerances is 300 grammes of drained berries (see relevant Codex texts on methods of analysis and sampling).
Any sample unit taken in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL 6.5, (see relevant Codex texts on methods of analysis and sampling) shall be regarded as a "defective" for the respective characteristics, as follows: (a) that exceeds the tolerance for mineral impurities in Section 3.3.2; (b) that exceeds the tolerance for "free-flowing" in Section 3.3.3; or (c) that exceeds the "maximum total allowable points for visual defects" in any one or more of the categories in Table 1 (3.3.4.3); or that exceeds the tolerance for disintegrated, badly crushed, or smashed in Table 1 (3.3.4.3).
In applying the acceptance procedure, each "defective" (as defined in Section 3.4.1 subparagraphs (a) or (b) or (c)) is treated individually for the respective characteristics.
shall be free from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and shall not contain any substance originating from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
Packaging used for quick-frozen blueberries shall: (a) protect the organoleptic and other quality characteristics of the product; (b) protect the product against microbiological and other contamination; (c) protect the product from dehydration and, where appropriate, leakage as far as technologically practicable; and (d) do not pass on to the product any odour, taste, colour or other foreign characteristics throughout the processing (where applicable) and distribution of the product up to the time of final sale.
The name of the food as declared on the label shall include "blueberries".
In the case of quick-frozen blueberries in bulk, the information required above shall either be placed on the container or be given in accompanying documents, except that the name of the food accompanied by the words "quick frozen" (the term "frozen" may be used in accordance with Section 6.1.3 of this standard) and the name and address of the manufacturer or packer shall appear on the container.
Standards of potability should be no less strict than those contained in the latest edition of the "Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality - Volume 1", World Health Organization.
Raw materials should be stored under conditions which provide protection against contamination
should be acceptable to the official agency having jurisdiction.
They should be cleaned and maintained clean, and where necessary disinfected and disinfested.
Establishments should be located in areas which are free from objectionable odors, smoke, dust or other contaminants and are not subject to flooding.
Buildings and facilities should be designed to facilitate hygienic operations by means of a regulated flow in the process from the arrival of the raw material at the premises to the finished product, and should provide for appropriate temperature conditions for the process and the product.
Where appropriate, floors should slope sufficiently for liquids to drain to trapped outlets.
Ceilings should be so designed, constructed and finished as to prevent the accumulation of dirt and minimize condensation, mould development and flaking, and should be easy to clean.
Doors should have smooth, non-absorbent surfaces and, where appropriate be self-closing and close fitting.
Where appropriate, angles between walls, between walls and floors, and between walls and ceilings should be sealed and covered to facilitate cleaning.
Internal windows sills, if present, should be sloped to prevent use as shelves.
These facilities should be constructed of corrosion-resistant-materials, capable of being easily cleaned, and should be fitted with suitable means of supplying hot and cold water in sufficient
An ample supply of water, in compliance with Sub-Section 7.3 of the Recommended International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), under adequate pressure and of suitable temperature should be available with adequate facilities for its storage, where necessary, and distribution, and with adequate protection against contamination.
Ice should be made from water, in compliance with Sub-Section 7.3 of the General Principles referred to in Sub-Section 4.4.1.1, and should be manufactured, handled and stored so as to protect it from contamination.
Steam used in direct contact with food and food contact surfaces should contain no substances which may be hazardous to health or may contaminate the food.
Non-potable water used for steam production, refrigeration, fire control and other similar purposes not connected with food should be carried in completely separate lines, identifiable preferably by color, and with no cross-connection with or back-siphonage into the system carrying potable water (see also Sub-Section 7.3.2).
Steam supply to the thermal processing system should be adequate to the extent needed to ensure that sufficient steam pressure is maintained during thermal processing, regardless of other demands for steam by the plant.
The system used to deliver the commercially sterile air or other gas to the point of use should be capable of being sterilized prior to use and being maintained in a sterile condition during operation.
System design, structure and installation should ensure that container material does not become contaminated or unacceptable because of damage.
As far as practicable, rooms should be kept free from steam, vapor and surplus water.
Cleaning and disinfection should meet the requirements of Appendix I of the General Principles of Food Hygiene referred to in Sub-Section 4.4.1.1 of this Code.
After application, contaminated equipment, containers, container materials and utensils should be thoroughly cleaned to remove residues prior to being used again.
Any behavior which could result in contamination of food such as eating, use of tobacco, chewing e.g., gum, sticks and betel nuts, or unhygienic practices such as spitting, should be prohibited in food handling areas.
Stocks of raw materials and ingredients should be properly rotated.
Thermophilic growth and contamination in blanchers should be minimized by good design, the use of adequate operating temperatures and by routine cleaning.
The closures of sealed jars should therefore be contained within the glass body diameter to avoid closure to closure contact of sealed jars.
All storage and handling procedures should minimize the chance of contamination or damage of packaging material.
As a minimum these should include those inspections and measurements given in Sub-Section 7.4.8 of this Code.
In-line formation of containers from container materials should be accomplished according to container material and/or packaging machine manufacturer's specifications and should be formed by a method which maintains container integrity and prevents aseptic zone and container contamination.
Container materials to be sterilized chemically as with hydrogen peroxide should be stored in accordance with 7.4.1.2 so that the necessity for cleaning is avoided.
Seams and other closures should be tight and secure and meet the requirements of the container material and closing equipment manufacturers, the food processor and those of the agency having jurisdiction.
Seam or seal areas should be kept as clean and dry as necessary to obtain a satisfactory closure.
At intervals of sufficient frequency to ensure proper closure, the operator, closure inspector, or other person competent to inspect containers and their closures, should examine the filled, sealed containers for product
Records of such tests and corrective actions taken should be maintained.
Appropriate methods should be obtained from the container material and closing equipment manufacturers of these containers or materials.
These tests should be conducted in accordance with the container material and/or equipment manufacturer's instructions; and should include at least tests to check that critical sealing components, such as seal rings and membranes, are intact and are of a number, material and location required to ensure maintenance of a hermetic seal.
Corrective action should be taken and recorded.
Careful attention to layout, operation and maintenance of conveyance systems is necessary if abuse is to be reduced to a minimum.
The equipment should be readily accessible for cleaning and disinfection.
Complete records concerning all aspects of the establishment of the scheduled process, including any associated incubation tests, should be retained permanently.
It is absolutely necessary to establish the required processes using accepted scientific methods.
If a flow meter recording device is used to monitor and record product feed rate after steam injection or infusion, the device should be calibrated, using appropriate methods such as volumetric flow or injection tracing (e.g., salt or dye) methods, at a frequency sufficient to ensure accurate flow of the specific products being processed.
Equipment modifications should be evaluated to determine the need to perform additional challenge tests.
Appropriate inspection and tests should be carried out to monitor the sterilization and its maintenance and records kept as specified in 8.1.4, 8.1.6, 8.1.7 and 8.1.8 of this code.
Packaging material and procedural modifications should be evaluated to determine the need to perform additional challenge tests.
Records should be kept as specified in sub-section 8.1.4, 8.1.6, 8.1.7, and 8.1.8 of this code.
The heating characteristics of product in the hold tube must be sufficiently understood with respect to product flow and temperature variations, and to environmental control around the section, to ensure that any appropriate temperature controls are installed to guarantee the scheduled process.
A daily inspection of temperature indicating devices should be made to detect and replace defective devices.
The chart timing device should be accurate and checked as often as necessary to maintain accuracy.
For batch systems, a sufficient number of sensing elements should be so located as to ensure that the scheduled process is delivered to the entire batch.
The probes for hold tubes must be located so that (a) the conductivity of the piping structure does not interfere with the accurate determination of product temperature, (b) the internal obstruction created by the probes is minimized, and (c) for hold tubes, the probe should be located at or after the point where the upward slope of the tube falls to less than 2 cm per meter (0.25 inch per foot) of piping as described in 7.6.1.3.
The pressure recording device should have a range from 0 kg per cm2 (lbs. per square inch) such that the safe working pressure is about two-thirds of the full scale and, if an analog type, be graduated in divisions not greater than 0.14 kg per cm2 (2 lbs. per square inch).
A method (for example, monitoring metering pump speeds) should be used to control the product feed rate as specified in the scheduled process.
Operators should check to see that the following conditions are met before beginning production on an aseptic system.
In the event of loss of sterility, the system(s) should be returned to a condition of commercial sterility before resuming operations.
Whenever the in-process monitoring, records review, processor check or other means disclose that a low-acid food container system, or production equipment has received a thermal or sterilization treatment less than that stipulated in the scheduled process, the processor should:
Readings should be made and legible records maintained for the following: (a) Temperature indicating device(s) at the hold section or tube outlet; (b) Temperature recorder at hold section or tube outlet;
In addition to the above, the record keeping requirements contained in section 8.1.1 will also apply to particulate containing products.
Records of container examinations should be kept with accordance with 7.4.9.
Specifications of the service life of wave length emitting devices should be kept on file.
Sterilization processes for the packaging material should be established by individuals having expert knowledge regarding aseptic processing in accordance with the provisions contained in 7.5.2.3.
They should be held in a manner which will permit ready reference.
The records should be signed or initialed by the person conducting the review.
Records should be signed or initialed by the container closure inspector and should be reviewed by a competent representative of plant management with sufficient frequency to ensure that the records are complete and that the operation has been properly controlled.
Records should be kept of the results of all tests of microbiological quality and cooling water treatment.
Records identifying initial distribution of finished product should be maintained to facilitate, if necessary, the segregation of specific food lots that may have been contaminated or are otherwise unfit for their intended use.
10.5 Incubation tests, for example, 10 days at 35C ± 3.0C (95F ±2 5F) should be conducted on a representative sample of containers of product from each code; records of the test results on each code lot
Such specifications should include sampling procedures, analytical methodologies and limits for acceptance.
When a specific name is used, the product must contain a minimum of 80 percent of the variety listed for that specific name.
The product shall have a characteristic aroma, colour and flavour, which may vary depending on geo-climatic factors/conditions/varieties, and shall be free from any foreign odour , colour, flavour and especially from mustiness.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers in Foods (CXS 346-2021).8
The abalone must be alive and possess organoleptic characteristics associated with freshness, and freedom from taint or extraneous matter, as determined by specialists familiar with the species concerned.
Live abalone shall be examined by the methods given in Sections I-8 and I-9.
The products covered by this Standard shall comply with the Maximum Levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Foods and Feeds (CODEX/STAN 193-1995) and the maximum residue limits for veterinary drugs established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The Risk Assessments should be undertaken in accordance with the Working Principles for Risk Analysis for Food Safety for Application by Governments (CAC/GL 62-2007).
The final product shall be free from any foreign material that poses a threat to human health.
Live abalone shall be labelled by weight, count, volume per package or count per unit weight as appropriate to the product.
The label shall specify the conditions for storage and/or temperature that will maintain the product quality/viability during transportation, storage and distribution.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with procedures elaborated in Sections I-8.3 through I-9, and Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CAC/GL 31-1999).
The product shall be kept deep frozen at -18°C or colder so as to maintain the quality during transportation, storage and distribution.
Raw fresh chilled or frozen abalone shall meet the requirements of this standard when lots examined in accordance with Sections II-8 and II-9 comply with the provisions set out in Section II-10.
After processing they should retain visual characteristics associated with freshness, including, where relevant, shells free of dirt.
The name of the food to be declared on the label shall be the common or usual name of the species of abalone in accordance with the law and custom of the country in which the food is sold and in a manner not to mislead the consumer.
Where the frozen food has been glazed, the declaration of the net weight of the food shall be exclusive of the glaze.
The label shall specify the conditions for storage and/or temperature that will maintain the product safety/quality during transportation, storage and distribution including date of minimum durability and date of shucking where required in the country of sale.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with procedures elaborated in Sections II -8.3 through II -8.5 and II-9, and Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CAC/GL 31-1999).
in close proximity to the name of the product in such descriptive terms that will adequately and fully describe the nature of the presentation of the product to avoid misleading or confusing the consumer.
The net weight of all sample units shall be determined by the procedures described or mentioned in sections II-8.3.1 through II-8.3.3.
When declared on the label, the count of abalone shall be determined by counting the numbers of abalone in the container or a representative sample thereof and dividing the count of abalone by the actual weight/volume to determine the count per unit weight or volume.
The net weight (exclusive of packaging material) of each sample unit representing a lot shall be determined using the AOAC official method 963.18, Net Contents of Frozen Seafoods.
The complete thawing of the product is determined by gently squeezing the bag occasionally so as not to damage the texture of the abalone, until no hard core or ice crystals are left.
Maize shall be free from filth in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Maize (corn) shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Maize (corn) shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity.
Maize (corn) shall comply with those maximum mycotoxin limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity.
– shall be free from micro-organisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; – shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and
In those instances where more than one factor limit and/or method of analysis is given we strongly recommend that users specify the appropriate limit and method of analysis.
Page Location Text in previous version Text in amended version 5 Section 7.6 Labelling of Non-Retail Containers The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).
This Standard applies to a blend of evaporated skimmed milk and vegetable fat, also known as a blend of unsweetened condensed skimmed milk and vegetable fat, which is intended for direct consumption, or further processing, in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this Standard.
A blend of evaporated skimmed milk and vegetable fat is a product prepared by recombining milk constituents and potable water, or by the partial removal of water and the addition of edible vegetable oil, edible vegetable fat or a mixture thereof, to meet the compositional requirements in Section 3 of this Standard.
In addition to the provision of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) the following specific provisions apply.
The name of the food shall be: – Blend of Evaporated Skimmed Milk and Vegetable Fat; or – Reduced Fat Blend of Evaporated Skimmed Milk and Vegetable Fat Other names may be used if allowed by national legislation in the country of retail sale.
The selection of the appropriate language(s) of certificates should be based on adequacy for the importing country’s purpose, comprehension by the certifying officer and minimizing unnecessary burden on the exporting country.
The Model Certificate should contain and be completed as follows:
The format of the model sanitary certificate should be considered when developing a certificate to attest that fish and fishery products contained in a consignment were produced in establishments that are under the control of and produced to the laws and requirements of the exporting country, or under conditions cited in equivalence or compliance agreements.
If there is an addendum, it must have the same identification number as the primary certificate and the signature of the same certifying officer signing the sanitary certificate.
should describe the flight/train/truck/container number, as appropriate and the name of the air carrier, vessel, etc.
Page numbering should be used where the certificate occupies more than one sheet of paper.
Seal and signature should be applied in a manner that minimizes the risk of fraud
The fishery products are to be dispatched from: (Place of dispatch) to: (Country and place of destination) by the following means of transport: Name of consignee and address at place of destination:
Canned finfish are packed in hermetically sealed containers and shall have received a processing treatment sufficient to ensure commercial sterility.
The raw material shall be of a quality fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
(i) Sampling of lots for examination of the final product as prescribed in Section 3.4 shall be in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5. (ii) Sampling of lots for examination of net weight and drained weight, where appropriate, shall be carried out in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan meeting the criteria established by the CAC.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with Sections 7.3 through 7.5, Annex A and the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CXG 31 - 1999).
The method should only be tested with commodities representing the intended use (possible misuse) of the analyte.
All waste solvent should be stored safely and disposed of both safely and in an environmentally friendly manner taking into account specific national regulations where available.
Staff must be aware that many pesticides have acutely or chronically toxic properties and therefore, great care is necessary in the handling of standard reference compounds.
Adequate supplies of reagents, solvents, gas, glassware, chromatographic materials, etc., of suitable quality are essential.
All records should be kept up-to-date and retained.
Analytical standards should be available for all parent compounds for which the laboratory is monitoring samples, as well as those metabolites that are included in MRLs.
Equal care must be taken that standard solutions of pesticides are not decomposed by the effect of light or heat during storage or become concentrated by solvent evaporation.
FOLLOW TESTS DESCRIBED IN 4.1 WITH THE FOLLOWING EXCEPTIONS
Perform quantitative confirmation with analytical standards prepared in blank matrix extract if matrix effect is significant.
Change Parameters to be tested For test methods and acceptability criteria see the appropriate sections of Appendix 1.
Confirm residues above 0.5AL.
Any deviations from a SOP must be recorded and authorised by the analyst in charge.
Apply appropriate test mixtures to obtain information on the performance of the column.
All results must meet acceptability criteria, or be repeated.
The reproducibility of the method under the new conditions must be established and it has to be done by more than one analyst if available.
The new parameters established must be within the acceptable ranges specified in Table 3.
It should be noted that the only evidence supporting the absence of detectable residues is provided by the performance verification data.
Where “blank” samples are available, these should be used to check the occurrence of possible interfering substances.
For qualitative confirmation (identity) the use of mass-spectral data, or a combination of techniques based on different physico-chemical properties, is desirable (see Table 6).
Calculate new warning and action limits for the particular analyte/sample matrix, applying the new average recovery and the CV values measured.
The advantages of thin layer chromatography are speed, low cost and applicability to heat sensitive materials; disadvantages include (usually) lower sensitivity and separation power than instrumental chromatographic detection techniques and need for more efficient cleanup in case of detections based on chemicals colour reactions.
Since at lower concentrations the precision may be in the range of 50%, the residue values below 0.1 should be expressed with one significant figure only.
Storage time should encompass the longest period likely to be required to complete the analysis.
Report typical peaks present in the extracts of
CV's of stable compounds will indicate the within laboratory repeatability as well.
Compare blank response observed with typical peaks reported in blank extracts See other comments under section 1.4.
Note: the variability of residues in between analytical portions can be calculated from the uncertainty of the measurement of replicate portions of samples (CVL) containing residues; CVL 2 = CVSp 2+ CVA 2.
Alternately, if the sample blank, calibration and the recovery are satisfactory then the suitability of reagents etc. are confirmed.
The frequency of recovery studies at AL should be 2 to 3 times higher then those at other levels.
To ensure appropriate efficiency, the validated extraction procedure should be carried out without any change.
Check accuracy if residue found at ≥0.5AL.
Test also detectability separately with new detection reagents.
Detection method Criterion LC or GC and Mass spectrometry if sufficient number of diagnostic ions are monitored LC-DAD or scanning UV if the UV spectrum is characteristic LC – fluorescence in combination with other techniques 2-D TLC – (spectrophotometry) in combination with other techniques GC-ECD, NPD, FPD only if combined with two or more separation techniques Derivatisation if it was not the first choice method LC-immunogram in combination with other techniques LC-UV/VIS (single wavelength) in combination with other techniques Other chromatographic systems (applying stationary and/or mobile phases of different selectivity) or other techniques.
The degree of precision and trueness must comply with the criteria specified in Table 3.
The processing element of preparation must be designed to avoid inducing changes in the concentration of the analyte.
Where the response curve obtained is not linear, the value for X must be interpreted cautiously.
Proposed changes to cooking conditions, or indeed raw materials and other ingredients, must be assessed from the perspective of the acceptability of the final product to the consumer.
It is recommended that all reduction measures are tested to identify the most successful for your own product.
Types of flours vary in asparagine content and choice should be balanced between nutritional value and minimization of acrylamide formation.
High nitrogen content in soils may result in higher asparagine content in cereals and excessive nitrogen fertilization should be avoided.
The amount of organic acids added needs to be limited because an acidic taste may be developed and gas release in the dough may be too fast.
Manufacturers need to examine production processes for individual products to determine whether reducing rework can be used to mitigate acrylamide levels in their products.
Compensation by increasing the temperature of the earlier stages of baking should not lead to a significant increase in acrylamide, since the moisture content at this stage should be sufficiently
Where relevant, industry should endeavour to provide advice to consumers on appropriate cooking and handling instructions that can help to mitigate acrylamide formation in the product.
Fat in dry matter content (m/m): Corresponding minimum dry matter content (m/m): Equal to or above 30% but less than 40%: 46% Equal to or above 40% but less than 45%: 48% Equal to or above 45% but less than 55%: 50% Equal to or above 55% but less than 60%: 54% Equal to or above 60%: 58% Compositional modifications beyond the minima and maxima specified above for milk fat and dry matter are not considered to be in compliance with Section 4.3.3 of the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999).
The general principles in Section 3 of the General standard for the labelling of pre -packaged foods are applicable to food information shown on the product information e-page of the pre-packaged food that is being offered for sale.
The food information about the pre-packaged foods offered for sale in e -commerce shall be provided to the consumer without a charge to access the information.
The language or languages on a product information e-page shall be suitable to the consumer in the country in which the food is marketed and to which it may be delivered.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the papayas must be: - whole; - sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of damage caused by pests; - practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste1; - firm; - fresh in appearance; - free of damage caused by low and/or high temperatures. The peduncle, if present, should not exceed a length of 1 cm.
The development and condition of the papayas must be such as to enable them: - to withstand transport and handling; and - to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
Papayas shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
Name of the variety and/or commercial type.
Canned crab meat is packed in hermetically sealed containers and shall have received a processing treatment sufficient to ensure commercial sterility.
Canned crab meat shall be prepared from sound crab of th e species designated in 2.1 which are alive immediately prior to the commencement of processing and of a quality suitable for human consumption .
(i) Sampling of lots for examination of the final product as prescribed in Section 3.3 shall be in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5. (ii) Sampling of lots for examination of net weight and drained weight where appropriate shall be carried out in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan established by the CAC.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with Annex A and the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CXG 31 - 1999).
Assess odour, flavour and texture in accordance with the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CXG 31-1999).
The length of the fish is measured as the distance between the cleft in the tail and a line drawn between the tips of the earbones.
The product shall be prepared by one of the salting processes defined in 2.2.1 and one or both of the drying processes defined in 2.2.2 and according to the different types of presentation as defined in 2.3.
Salted fish shall be prepared from sound and wholesome fish, fit for human consumption.
Salt used to produce salted fish shall be clean, free from foreign matter and foreign crystals, show no visible signs of contamination with dirt, oil, bilge or other extraneous materials and comply with the requirements laid down in the Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products ( CXC 52-2003).
Determination should be performed at least in duplicate.
(ii) Sampling for net weight shall be carried out in accordance with the General Guidelines on Sampling(CXG 50-2004).
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with procedures elaborated in Annex A and in accordance with Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CXG 31 - 1999).
The net weight (excluding packaging material and excess salt) of each sample unit in the sample lot shall be determined.
i) Determination of % salt saturation as required by the standard, should be in accordance to AOAC 950.46.B (Airdrying (a)) ii) Determination of water content in the whole fish, when needed in the commercial trade of klippfish and wet salted fish, the method of sampling the fish should be carried out according to the “Determination of Water Content in Whole Fish by Cross Section Method” defined in Annex B.
All sections labelled by even numbers, II, IV, VI, VIII etc. are collected to constitute one sample.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the pummelos must be: - whole; - sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; - practically free of damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste; - firm; - free of damage caused by low temperatures; - practically free of bruising.
Pummelos are classified in three classes defined below:
The development and condition of the pummelos must be such as to enable them: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
Colouring must be typical of the variety and/or commercial type on at least two-thirds of the surface of the fruit, account being taken of the variety and/or commercial type and of the time of picking.
The total area affected shall not exceed 10%. The defects must not, in any case, affect the pulp of the fruit.
Uniformity in size is achieved by the above mentioned size scales, except in the case of fruit in bulk bins and fruit in individual non-rigid (nets, bags) packages for direct sale to the consumer, for which the maximum size difference between the smallest and the largest fruit in the same lot or package must not exceed the range obtained by grouping three consecutive sizes in the size scale.
