Current dietary exposure and possible effects on population sub-groups should also be considered.
Information should be provided to ensure that genes coding for known toxins or anti-nutrients present in the donor organisms are not transferred to recombinant-DNA microorganisms that do not normally express those toxic or anti-nutritious characteristics.
Where altered metabolite levels are identified in foods, consideration should be given to the potential impacts on human health using conventional procedures for establishing the safety of such metabolites (e.g., procedures for assessing the human safety of chemicals in foods).
The purpose of this comparison, in conjunction with an exposure assessment as necessary, is to establish that substances that can affect the safety of the food have not been altered in a manner that would have an adverse impact on human health.
Information should therefore be provided
In order to minimize the possibility of gene transfer, the following steps should be considered: A) chromosomal integration of the inserted genetic material may be preferable to localization on a plasmid;
Nevertheless, the safety assessment should be reviewed in the light of new scientific information that calls into question the conclusions of the original safety assessment.
Genes derived from known allergenic sources should be assumed to encode an allergen unless scientific evidence demonstrates otherwise.
The size of the contiguous amino acid search should be based on a scientifically justified rationale in order to minimize the potential for false negative or false...
Oats shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Oats shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity.
– shall be free from micro-organisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; – shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and – shall not contain any substance originating from micro-organisms including fungi in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234 -1999) relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “oats”.
National or relevant food control authorities should consider implementation of source-directed measures in the Code of Practice for Source Directed Measures to Reduce Contamination in Foods with Chemicals (CXC 49-2011)2.
National or local authorities should monitor lead levels in drinking water in schools and childcare centres and apply mitigation measures to reduce elevated lead levels.
National or local authorities should educate people about the potential risks of consuming local specialty foods or collected wild foods (e.g. mushrooms) that could contain elevated lead levels.
The prickly pears must have a shape, colour, taste and smell characteristic of the species.
- to withstand transport and handling; and - to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
Prickly pears shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Recommended International Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44-1995).
8.2 The produce should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria for Foods (CAC/GL 21-1997).
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the carambolas must be: - whole; - sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste; - firm; - fresh in appearance; - free of damage caused by low temperatures; - free of pronounced blemishes; - sufficiently developed and display satisfactory ripeness, depending on the nature of the produce.
They must be characteristic of the variety, well-formed and free of blemishes, with the exception of very slight superficial defects in the skin and ribs due to rubbing and bruises, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package.
Carambolas shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Recommended International Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44-1995).
For produce transported in bulk, these particulars must appear on a document accompanying the goods.
Provide guidance to simplify and harmonize the information and the process of the exchange between the competent authorities of the importing and exporting countries.
a) not impose an outcome, a standard or a process in excess of what is being applied within the importing country without justification; b) recognize that the relevant component(s) of NFCS may be designed and structured differently while still meeting the same objectives or outcomes; c) recognize the official controls, assessments and approval mechanisms already in place in the exporting country;
f) Engage with the exporting country where additional information or clarity is needed so as to ensure any assessment process can be concluded in a timely manner.
Nutrition labelling – Nutrition labelling should not deliberately imply that a food which carries such labelling has necessarily any nutritional advantage over a food which is not so labelled.
To ensure that nutrition labelling is effective: • In providing the consumer with information about a food so that a wise choice of food can be made; • in providing a means for conveying information of the nutrient content of a food on the label; • in encouraging the use of sound nutrition principles in the formulation of foods which would benefit public health; • in providing the opportunity to include supplementary nutrition information on the label. To ensure that nutrition labelling does not describe a product or present information about it which is in any way false, misleading, deceptive or insignificant in any manner. To ensure that no nutrition claim is made without nutrition labelling.
In the case where a product is subject to labelling requirements of a Codex standard, the provisions for nutrient declaration set out in that standard should take precedence over but not conflict with the provisions of Sections 3.2.1 to 3.2.6 of these Guidelines.
The establishment of general population NRVs should also take into account daily intake reference values for upper levels established by FAO/WHO or recognized authoritative scienti fic bodies where applicable (e.g. Upper Level of Intake, Acceptable Macronutrient Distribution Range).
The amount of energy to be listed should be calculated by using the following conversion factors: Carbohydrates 4 kcal/g – 17 kJ Protein 4 kcal/g – 17 kJ Fat 9 kcal/g – 37 kJ Alcohol (Ethanol) 7 kcal/g – 29 kJ Organic acid 3 kcal/g – 13 kJ
The amount of protein to be listed should be calculated using the formula: Protein = Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen x 6.25 unless a different factor is given in a Codex standard or in the Codex method of analysis for that food.
In those cases where a product is subject to a Codex standard, requirements for tolerances for nutrient declaration established by the standard should take precedence over these guidelines.
The format of the FOPNL should be supported by scientifically valid consumer research.
The following format should be used: Total Fat ... g of which saturated fatty acids trans fatty acids monounsaturated fatty acids polyunsaturated fatty acids ... ... ... ... g g g g Cholesterol ... mg
Sections 8.1.1, 8.1.2 and 8.1.3 should be applied to any supplementary nutrition labels.
Numerical Presentation – The numerical presentation of nutrient content should be in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.4.
Supplementary nutrition information on labels should be accompanied by consumer education programmes to increase consumer understanding and use of the information.
Provide general guidance to assist in the development of front-of-pack nutrition labelling, a form of supplementary nutrition information, as a tool to facilitate the consumer’s understanding of the nutritional value of the food and their choice of food, consistent with the national dietary guidance or health and nutrition policy of the country or region of implementation.
For the purpose of establishing these NRVs -R, the values for pregnant and lactating women should be excluded.
FOPNL should only be provided in addition to, and not in place of, the nutrient declaration18 subject to the Section 5 of the Guidelines on Nutrition Labelling (CXG 2-1985).
Exemptions from FOPNL should align with the exemption from the nutrient declaration as described in Section 3.1.2 of the Guidelines on Nutrition Labelling (CXG 2-1985).
FOPNL should be monitored and evaluated to determine effectiveness and impact.
The product, as sold, should comply with the following composition and quality factors:
A formula food for very low energy diets shall provide when prepared according to instructions a daily energy intake of 450–800 kcal as the only source of energy.
Only L-forms of amino acids shall be used, except that DL-methionine may be used.
Very low energy diets shall provide not less than 3 g of linoleic acid and less than 0.5 g -linolenic acid in the recommended daily intake with the linoleic acid/-linolenic acid ratio between 5 and 15.
Very low energy diets shall provide not less than 50 g of available carbohydrates in the recommended daily intake of energy.
ii These lists should be reviewed when new FAO/WHO recommendations become available.
Very low energy diets shall be prepared from protein constituents of animal and/or plant which have been proved suitable for human consumption and from other suitable ingredients necessary to achieve the essential composition of the product as set out in Sections 3.1 and 3.2 above.
The product shall be prepared with special care under good manufacturing practices, so that residues of pesticides, which may be required in the production, storage or processing of the raw materials or the finished food ingredient, do not remain in the product, or, if technically unavoidable, are reduced to the maximum extent possible, and shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Committee on Pesticide Residues for this commodity.
The product shall be free from residues of hormones and antibiotics, as determined by means of agreed methods of analysis, and practically free from other contaminants especially pharmacologically active substances.
In addition to the appropriate sections of the General Standard for the Labelling of and Claims for Pre-packaged Foods for Special Dietary Uses (CXS 146-1985), hereinafter referred to as General Standard, and the Standard for the Labelling of and Claims for Foods for Special Medical Purposes (CXS 180-1991), the following specific provisions apply:
A complete list of ingredients shall be declared in accordance with Section 4.2 of the General Standard.
The date of minimum durability shall be declared in accordance with Section 4.7.1 of the General Standard.
In addition to the appropriate sections of the Standard on the Labelling of and Claims for Foods for Special Medical Purposes (CXS 180-1991), the following directions should be provided: - the statement "for the dietary management of obesity" shall be declared on the label, in close proximity to the name of the food; - reference to the importance of maintaining adequate daily fluid intake; - a statement that the product should not be used by pregnant, nursing and lactating women or by infants, children, adolescents and elderly, except when medically indicated.
A warning should be included on the label if the food is not capable of being stored after opening or is not capable of being stored in the container after opening.
Other statements, as required under Section 9.6 above and Section 4.5 of the Standard for the Labelling of and Claims for Foods for Special Medical Purposes (CXS 180-1991), may appear on an accompanying leaflet in which case reference shall be made to this fact on the label of the package and/or sachet.
The product is a paste type which has various physical properties such as semi-solid and partly retained shape of soybean and which is manufactured from the ingredients stipulated in Sections 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 through the following processes: a) boiled or steamed soybeans, or the mixture of boiled or steamed soybeans and grains, are fermented with naturally occurring or cultivated microorganisms; b) mixed with salt or brine and others; c) the mixture or solid part of the mixture shall be aged for a certain period of time until the quality of the product meets the requirements stipulated in Section 3.2 Quality factors; and d) processed by heat or other appropriate means, before or after being hermetically sealed in a container, so as to prevent spoilage.
i The nitrogen conversion factor of 5.71 should be used.
Any container that fails to meet the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Section 3.2, should be considered a defective.
A container that fails to meet the requirement for minimum fill of Section 7.1 should be considered as defective.
A lot should be considered as meeting the requirements of Section 7.1 when the number of defectives, as defined in Section 7.2 does not exceed the number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan.
Claims on “Halal” fermented soybean paste shall follow the appropriate section of the General Guidelines for Use of the Term “Halal” (CXG 24-1997).
A pH meter shall be used to determine the endpoint instead of optical verification of colours.
Next, decant the mixture through a quantitative filter and collect the filtrate in a 100 ml volumetric flask.
shall be used for butter with more than 95% fat.
If the consumer would be misled by the omission, the milkfat content shall be declared in a manner found acceptable in the country of sale to the final consumer, either (i) as a percentage by mass, or (ii) in grams per serving as quantified in the label provided that the number of servings is stated.
Its aim is to assist relevant authorities in upgrading the operation of the street food industry to ensure that the population has available wholesome, safe and nutritious foods in accessible places.
The Guidelines specify the general hygienic requirements and practices to be recommended for inclusion in Codes of Practice for the preparation and sale of street foods.
Consumers should recognize their role by following relevant instructions and applying appropriate food hygiene measures.
Objectives: Depending on the nature of the operations, and the risks associated with them, premises, equipment and facilities should be located, designed and constructed to ensure that: contamination is minimized; design and layout permit appropriate maintenance, cleaning and disinfections and minimize air-borne contamination; surfaces and materials, in particular those in contact with food, are non-toxic in intended use and, where necessary, suitably durable, and easy to maintain and clean; where appropriate, suitable facilities are available for temperature, humidity and other controls; and there is effective protection against pest access and harbourage.
The general hygienic requirements and practices to be followed by the vendors should be translated by the relevant authorities into Codes of practice which are recognized as cost effective tools for the control of street foods, by fully taking into account local conditions including specific risk factors that are relevant to each operation.
The Relevant Authorities should set up appropriate modalities for the issuance and renewal of licenses to vendors.
The space in and around the vendors, stall shall be free of unnecessary stored goods or articles and discarded articles in order to permit easy access for cleaning.
Vendors’ stalls shall be of a type approved by the relevant authority.
All cooking ranges, washing equipment, working tables, shelves and cupboards on or in which food is placed should be at least 45cm above the ground.
In applying these specific conditions and requirements, any food hygiene hazards associated with such facilities should be adequately controlled to ensure the safety and suitability of food.
All hand service articles such as napkins, towels and hand wipes should be of the disposable type.
Every vendor should ensure that all defective, damaged, cracked, rusted, chipped and unsuitable appliances and crockery are removed from use and discarded.
They should be designed and constructed so that the risk of contaminating food or the potable water supply is avoided.
Adequate hand washing facilities including hand wash basins, soap and supply of potable water should be provided at all times.
Such facilities should be suitably located and designated.
Lighting fixtures should, where appropriate, be protected to ensure that food is not contaminated by breakages.
Where necessary, separate, secure storage facilities for cleaning materials and hazardous substances should be provided.
Establishments and equipment should be kept in an appropriate state of repair and condition to: facilitate all sanitation procedures; function as intended;
Where appropriate, programmes should be drawn up in consultation with relevant specialist expert advisors.
Cleaning procedures will involve, where appropriate: - removing gross debris from surfaces; - applying a detergent solution to loosen soil and bacterial film and hold them in solution or suspension; - rinsing with water which complies with section 4, to remove loosened soil and residues of detergent; - dry cleaning or other appropriate methods for removing and collecting residues and debris; and - where necessary, disinfection.
Good sanitation, inspection of incoming materials and good monitoring can minimize the likelihood of infestation and thereby limit the need for pesticides.
Waste stores must be kept appropriately clean.
Animals should, wherever possible, be excluded from the grounds of factories and food processing plants.
Where appropriate, refuse should be stored in covered, pest-proof containers.
Establishments and surrounding areas should be regularly examined for evidence of infestation.
Treatment with chemical, physical or biological agents should be carried out without posing a threat to the safety or suitability of food.
Where necessary, such as in the case of mobile vendors or where potable water supply is not yet available, potable water should be stored in clean water containers as defined in these Guidelines.
The system should be large enough to carry peak loads and be provided with traps to ensure only liquid waste is discharged into the drain/sewer.
Immediately after disposal of the waste, receptacles used for storage and any equipment which has come into contact with the waste should be cleaned using one of the methods described in Section 3.3.1.2 The waste storage area should also be cleaned daily.
Sanitation systems should be monitored for effectiveness, periodically verified by means such as audit pre-operational inspections or, where appropriate, microbiological sampling of environment and food contact surfaces and regularly reviewed and adapted to reflect changed circumstances.
All vendors located in a street food centre should comply with all provisions stated in the officially recognized regulations applicable to street food vendors.
The design of the street food centre shall:
All working surfaces, table tops, floors and surrounding areas should be thoroughly cleaned at least daily, using one of the methods described in Section 3.3.1.2
In addition to these provisions, street food centres should:
f) routine inspection of solid waste disposal areas for the presence or harbourage of pests, taking any and all practical measures to eliminate and further prevent any infestation; and g) compliance with any other requirement of the relevant authority related to solid waste disposal.
Among other requirements the facilities should: (a) have walls of durable material, up to an appropriate height, which is easy to maintain, clean and disinfect; (b) be clean, free of bad odours and provided with a flushing system; (c) be well lit, ventilated and routinely cleaned and sanitized and maintained in good working condition; (d) include hand washing and drying facilities and properly supplied with soap and other needed supplies;
Only permitted food additives should be used and the amount added should follow the specifications provided.
When thawing is carried out as an operation separated from cooking this should be performed only in: a) a refrigerator or purpose-built thawing cabinet maintained at a temperature of 4C; or b) running potable water maintained at a temperature not above 21 C for a period not exceeding 4 hours; or c) a commercial microwave oven only when the food will be immediately transferred to conventional cooking units as part of a continuous cooking process or when the entire, uninterrupted cooking process takes place in the microwave oven
Ready-to-eat foods intended for continuous serving should be protected from environmental contamination and kept at the following holding temperatures: a) for food served hot......60C or above; b) for food served cold......7C or below;
All unsold cooked food and prepared beverages that cannot be properly preserved should be disposed of in a sanitary manner at the end of the day.
Where the same conveyance or container is used for transporting different foods, or non-foods, effective cleaning and, where necessary, disinfection should take place between loads.
Stocks of raw materials and ingredients should be subject to effective stock rotation.
The treatment process should be effectively monitored.
Surfaces, utensils, equipment, fixtures and fittings should be thoroughly cleaned and where necessary disinfected after raw food, particularly meat and poultry, has been handled or processed.
In manufacturing and processing, suitable detection or screening devices should be used where necessary.
Managers and supervisors should have enough knowledge of food hygiene principles and practices to be able to judge potential risks, take appropriate preventive and corrective action, and ensure that effective monitoring and supervision takes place.
Street Food Advisory Services should be established with the necessary capacities to carry out their mission effectively.
Objectives: To ensure that those who come directly or indirectly into contact with food are not likely to contaminate food
Potable water should be used wherever necessary to avoid food contamination.
Medical examination of a food handler should be carried out if clinically or epidemiologically indicated.
Personnel should always wash their hands when personal cleanliness may affect food safety, for example: at the start of food handling activities; immediately after using the toilet; and after handling raw food or any contaminated material, where this could result in contamination of other food items; they should avoid handling ready-to-eat food, where appropriate.
People engaged in food handling activities should refrain from behaviour which could result in contamination of food, for example: • smoking; • spitting; • chewing or eating; • sneezing or coughing over unprotected food. Personal effects such as jewellery, watches, pins or other items should not be worn or brought into food handling areas if they pose a threat to the safety and suitability of food. No vendor is allowed to use the stall as a sleeping or dwelling place, or for any other personal activity.
Visitors to food processing or handling areas should, where appropriate, wear protective clothing and adhere to the other personal hygiene provisions in this section.
Those who handle strong cleaning chemicals or other potentially hazardous chemicals should be instructed in safe handling techniques.
Managers and supervisors of food processes should have the necessary knowledge of food hygiene principles and practices to be able to judge potential risks and take the necessary action to remedy deficiencies.
Systems should be in place to ensure that food handlers remain aware of all procedures necessary to maintain the safety and suitability of food.
Simple posters illustrating the “dos” and “don’ts” of street food preparation and vending should be widely and prominently displayed in relevant places for the benefit of both vendors and consumers.
The formation of street food vendor associations or cooperatives should be encouraged to provide a liaison point with the relevant authorities in view of facilitating the implementation of control measures
Street Food Advisory Services should have the leading role in the elaboration of information material and in the monitoring of consumers’ education.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the litchis must be: - whole; - sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; - practically free of damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage ; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste1; - free of damage and abrasion; - practically free of brown markings.
The litchis must be presented under one of the following forms:
“Extra” Class litchis must be presented individually.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety or varietal type.
This standard applies to products designated as "Chopped Meat" which have been packed in any suitable packaging material.
Product with binder Product without binder and edible offal (but may include heart, tongue or heat meat from mammals) Minimum ingoing meat content 80% 90% Maximum fat content 35% 25%
The meat and poultry meat shall be uniformly and thoroughly cured and the product shall be capable of being sliced.
A declaration of the presence of binders and of edible offal and a declaration indicating the species of animal from which the meat, poultry meat or a combination of these is derived, shall be given in connection with the name of the product if their omission would mislead the consumer.
The list of ingredients shall indicate the species of animals from which the meat, poultry meat or a combination of these is derived.
The tomato concentration shall be seven percent or more of natural total soluble solidsii, but not dehydrated to a dry powder or flake form.
Processed tomato concentrates shall have good flavour and odour, fairly good red colour, and shall possess a homogeneous (evenly divided) texture, characteristic of the product.
a) salt (sodium chloride) in accordance with the Standard for Food Grade Salt (CXS 150-1985);1 b) spices and aromatic herbs (such as basil leaf, etc.) and their natural extracts; c) lemon juice (single strength or concentrated) used as an acidulant; and d) water.
Processed tomato concentrates shall be prepared in accordance with good manufacturing practices (GMP), from such materials and under such practices that the product is substantially free of extraneous plant materials, this including other objectionable material and shall be practically free of mineral impurities.
It is recommended that the products covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969),4 and other relevant Codex texts such as codes of hygienic practice and codes of practice.
The mineral impurity content does not exceed 0.1 percent of the natural total soluble solids content.
The content of lactic acid (total) does not exceed one percent of the natural total soluble solids content.
Mould count for processed tomato concentrates to be set according to the legislation of the country of retail sale.
The pH must be below 4.6.
The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995).3
In order to consider the concentration of the product, the determination of the maximum levels for contaminants shall take into account the natural total soluble solids, the reference value being 4.5 for fresh fruit.
In order to consider the concentration of the product, the determination of the maximum pesticide residue limits shall take into account the natural total soluble solids, the reference value being 4.5 for fresh fruit.
8.1 The product covered by the provisions of this standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).6 In addition, the following specific provisions apply:
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999)8 relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
The name of the product shall be: a) “Tomato Puree” if the food contains not less than 7 percent but less than 24 percent natural total soluble solids; b) “Tomato Paste” if the food contains not less than 24 percent natural total soluble solids; c) another denomination usually employed in the country accompanied by the declaration of the percentage of the natural total soluble solids; or d) if an added ingredient, as defined in Section 3.1.2, alters the flavour characteristic of the product, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the term “flavoured with X” or “X flavoured” as appropriate.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021). 7
This document should be read in conjunction with the Guidelines for the Design, Production, Issuance and Use of Generic Official Certificates (CAC/GL 38-2001).
Where attestation on animal health matters is required, reference should be made to the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code.
Identify the containers and seal numbers where applicable or if known.
• was/were produced in accordance with the public health requirements of.................................... (specify the country)
The names used for these specialities shall be sufficiently explicit to prevent any confusion, in purchasers’ or consumers’ minds, as to the origin and nature of the products and, in particular, with respect to the designations laid down in this standard.
Alternatively, the maximum permitted tolerance shall be: - 10 percent of over or under sizes for sizes with a 10-fruit interval; - 5 percent of over or under sizes for sizes with a 20-fruit interval; - 2 percent of over or under sizes for sizes with a 30 or more-fruit interval.
For the purpose of checking, the number of stoned (pitted) olives in one kilogramme shall be multiplied by a coefficient set by each producing country.
Maximum tolerance as units per kg or fraction: Harmless extraneous material 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ii In addition, at least 30 percent of the fruits shall be practically free from any blemishes.
A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Section 3.2 (except those based on sample averages),iii should be considered as a “defective”.
6.1 It is recommended that the product covered by this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969),8 the Code of Hygienic Practice for Low and Acidified Low -Acid Canned Foods (CXC 23-1979),9 the Code of Hygienic Practice for Canned Fruit and Vegetable Products (CXC 2-1969),10 and other relevant Codex texts such as codes of hygienic
A container that fails to meet the requirements for minimum fill of Section 7.1.1 should be considered a “defective”.
The drained weight of the product should be not less than the following percentages, calculated on the basis of the weight of distilled water at 20 oC which the sealed container will hold when completely filled.
Any container that fails to meet these tolerances shall be considered a “defective” for the purposes of this section.
The products covered by the provisions of this standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).12 In addition, the following specific provisions apply:
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).13
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234 -1999)14 relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
The appropriate inspection level is selected as follows: Inspection level I – Normal sampling Inspection level II – Disputes, (Codex referee purposes sample size), enforcement or need for better lot estimate
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the yams must be: • Whole or transversely cut pieces provided that the cut surface is sufficiently cured; • sound; produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption should be excluded; • firm; • clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter, excluding coconut fiber, saw dust and other materials used for protective packaging; • practically free from pests1; • practically free from damages caused by pests; • free from abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; • free from any foreign smell and/or taste; • free from damage caused by low or high temperature; • practically free from sprouting; The development and condition of the yam must be such as to enable them: • to withstand transportation and handling; and • to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
The yams must have reached an appropriate degree of development and/or maturity in accordance with the characteristics of the species, the time of harvesting/picking, and the area in which they are grown.
In the case of a mixture of distinctly different varieties of yams of different origins, the indication of the country of origin shall appear next to the name of the variety.
Yams shall be packed in each package in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
Packages must be free of any foreign matter and smell.
In that case the identification must be machine readable and easily accessible.
8.2 The produce covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995).
9.2 The produce should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
In the case of a mixture of distinctly different varieties or species of yams of different origins, the indication of each country of origin shall appear next to the name of the variety or species concerned.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions fo r each class and the tolerances allowed, the cobs of baby corn must be: - whole; - sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; - free of damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste; - fresh in appearance; - practically free of silk. The cut that is made on the base of the cobs should be clean and well defined. A slight discolouration of the cut surface due to storage is acceptable.
The cobs of baby corn are classified in three classes defined below:
; - silk attached to and/or broken from the cob shall be minimal without affecting the appearance.
The cobs of baby corn shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Recommended International Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44 -1995).
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package (or lot for produce presented in bulk) shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety.
This Standard applies to all products as defined in Section 2.1 below.
The solids content of the finished product shall meet the minimum Brix level for reconstituted juice specified in the Annex.
For fruit species not included in the Annex, the correct botanical or common name shall apply.
(c) For reconstituted juice and nectar, the potable water used in reconstitution shall, at a minimum, meet the latest edition of the Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality of the World Health Organization (Volumes 1 and 2).
The fruit shall retain no more water from washing, steaming or other preparatory operations than technologically unavoidable.
Such additions shall comply with the texts of the Codex Alimentarius Commission established for this purpose.
In addition to the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the following specific provisions apply:
The products covered by the provisions of this Standard should comply with those maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for these products.
The products covered by the provisions of this Standard should comply with those maximum levels for contaminants established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for these products.
The name of the product shall be “_____ juice” or “juice of _____”.
The name of the product shall be “concentrated ____ juice” or “____ juice concentrate”.
The name of the product shall be “water extracted_____ juice” or “water extracted juice of _____”.
The name of the product shall be “ ______ purée” or “Purée of _______”.
The name of the product shall be “concentrated ______ purée” or “ ______ purée concentrated”.
The name of the product shall be “ ____ nectar” or “nectar of ____”.
When food additive sweeteners are employed as substitutes for sugars in fruit nectars and mixed fruit nectars, the statement, “with sweetener(s),” shall be included in conjunction with or in close proximity to the product name.
• Onions and shallots shall have skin colour characteristics of the variety, including white, purple, cream, pink, red, grey, yellow, or brown.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the onions and shallots must be: • whole; • firm; • sound; produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; • clean; practically free of any visible foreign matter; • practically free from pests;i • free from damage caused by pests affecting the flesh; • free from hollow and/or tough pseudostems; • free from visible shoot growth; • free of abnormal external moisture excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; • free of any foreign smell and/or taste; • free from damage caused by low and/or high temperature;1 • sufficiently dry for the intended use (in the case of onions for storing, at least the first two outer layers of skins and the pseudostem must be fully dried); and • the pseudostems of onions and shallots must be twisted or clean cut and must not exceed 6 cm in length; except for onions or shallots presented in strings that must be braided with their own stems and tied with string, raffia or any other appropriate material.
The development and condition of the onions and shallots must be such as to enable them to: withstand transportation and handling; and arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
To ensure uniformity in size, the range in size between shallots in the same package shall not exceed: 3 mm where the diameter of the smallest bulb is 10 mm and over but under 15 mm; 5 mm where the diameter of the smallest bulb is 15 mm and over but under 25 mm; 10 mm where the diameter of the smallest bulb is 25 mm and over but under 40 mm; and 15 mm where the diameter of the smallest bulb is 40 mm or over.
The visible part of the contents of the package or lot for produce presented in bulk must be representative of the entire contents.
Onions and shallots shall be packed in each package in compliance with the appropriate section of the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).3
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021)5, in addition the following requirements shall apply: Each package must bear the following particulars, in letters grouped on the same side, legibly and indelibly marked, and visible from the outside.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce (“onions”, “shallots” as defined in Section 2 – Definition of produce) and may be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type.
In the case of a mixture of distinctly different varieties or commercial types of onions or shallots of different origins, the indication of the country of origin shall appear next to the name of the variety , commercial type and/or colour concerned.
In the case of a mixture of distinctly different commercial types and/or colours of onions or shallots of different origins, the indication of each country of origin shall appear next to the name of the commercial types and/or colours concerned.
 class;  variety and/or commercial type (optional); and  size (if sized) expressed as minimum and maximum diameters or in accordance with the method used.
Fat in dry matter content (m/m): Corresponding minimum dry matter content (m/m): Equal to or above 22% but less than 30%: 49% Equal to or above 30% but less than 40%: 53% Equal to or above 40% but less than 48%: 57% Equal to or above 48% but less than 60%: 61% Equal to or above 60%: 66% Compositional modifications beyond the minima and maxima specified above for milk fat and dry matter are not considered to be in compliance with Section 4.3.3 of the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999).
This Standard applies to peanuts as defined in Section 2 intended for processing for direct human consumption.
It is recommended that the product covered by the provisions of this Standard should be prepared in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), and other Codes of Practice recommended by the Codex Alimentarius Commission which are relevant to this product.
Peanuts shall be free from abnormal flavours, odours, living insects and mites.
Peanuts shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity.
Maximum level Peanuts in-pod 10% Peanut kernels 9.0% Lower moisture limits should be required for certain destinations in relation to the climate, duration of transport and storage.
Peanuts in-pod 0.5% m/m max Peanut kernels 0.5% m/m max
6.3 When the product is packaged in sacks, these must be clean, sturdy, and strongly sewn or sealed.
A robust and accurate system for monitoring or displaying temperature and relative humidity during transport in integral containers needs to be considered.
Carriers provide guidance on checking and operating the refrigeration systems.
- cleanliness - the load compartment should be regularly cleaned for example by steam cleaning; - damage to walls, floors, doors, ceilings should be in good condition; - temperature control - refrigerated units should be recently calibrated and supply continuous air circulation for uniform produce temperatures.
It is advisable that the loading area should be enclosed and if available, the loading dock doorway area should be equipped with doorway air seals.
The produce must be compatible.
Room for air circulation must be provided under, around and through the load to protect the produce from:
In loads with top-ice or humidity above 95%, the recorders should be waterproof or enclosed in a plastic bag.
Therefore it is essential that guidelines be followed as much as possible to maintain quality in distant markets.
The trailers and containers must be equipped with channels at the doorway for a plastic film curtain and gas ports for the application of the treatment.
Warning labels must be applied to the equipment to warn that the atmosphere is not life supporting and that the cargo area must be properly ventilated before personnel enter to unload the cargo.
Packaging must withstand: - rough handling during loading and unloading; - compression from the overhead weight of other containers; - impact and vibration during transportation; - high humidity during precooling, transit, and storage.
These steps are essential for settling claims over temperature management during transportation.
All glued boxes should be made with a water resistant adhesive.
Standardized containers: utilize, with other containers, the maximum surface of the pallet with no overhang and little underhang; provide unit loads and stable mixed pallet loads; reduce transportation and marketing costs.
Shipping containers on slipsheets are cross-stacked, film wrapped, or otherwise unitized with cornerboards and strapping.
Harvested produce should be protected from the sun with covering until they are placed in the precooling facility.
Canned shrimp are packed in hermetically sealed containers and shall have received a processing treatment sufficient to ensure commercial sterility.
The portion of the cleaned or de -veined shrimp shall make up 95% of the shrimp contents; Broken shrimp - more than 10% of the shrimp contents consist of pieces of peeled shrimp of less than four segments with or without the vein removed;
Shrimp shall be prepared from sound shrimp of the species in sub -section 2.1 which are of a quality fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
In addition to provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the following specific provisions apply:
Broken shrimp defined in 2.3.3 shall be so labelled.
(ii) Sampling of lots for examination of net weight and drained weight shall be carried out in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan meeting the criteria established by the CAC.
Samples taken for sensoric and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination in accordance with Annex A and the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CXG 31 - 1999).
The drained weight of all sample units shall be determined by the following procedure: (i) Maintain the container at a temperature between 20 °C and 30 °C for a minimum of 12 hours prior to examination; (ii) Open and tilt the container to distribute the contents on a pre-weighed circular sieve which consists of wire mesh with square openings of 2.8 mm x 2.8 mm; (iii) Incline the sieve at an angle of approximately 17-20° and allow the shrimps to drain for two minutes, measured from the time the product is poured into the sieve; (iv) Weigh the sieve containing the drained shrimps;
to withstand transport and handling; and to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
Asparagus is classified in three classes defined below:
Size is determined by the length and diameter of the shoot.
The cut at the base of the shoots must be as square as possible.
The length of the shoots must be: - above 17 cm for long asparagus; - 12 to 17 cm for short asparagus; - for Class II asparagus arranged, but not bundled in the package: (a) white and violet: 12 to 22 cm, (b) violet/green and green: 12 to 27 cm. - under 12 cm for asparagus tips. The maximum length allowed for white and violet asparagus is 22 cm and for violet/green and green asparagus 27 cm. The maximum difference in length of shoots packed in firmly bound bundles must not exceed 5 cm.
In no case shall the diameter be less than 3 mm.
