Live bivalve molluscs shall be labelled by weight, count, count per unit weight, or volume as appropriate to the product.
The label shall specify the conditions for storage and/or temperature that will maintain the product safety/viability during transportation, storage and distribution.
The conversion factor should be supported by adequate data.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with procedures elaborated in Sections 1.8.3 through 1.8.5, and Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CXG 31-1999).
When declared on the label, the count of bivalve molluscs shall be determined by counting the numbers of bivalve molluscs in the container or a representative sample thereof and dividing the count of bivalve molluscs by the actual weight/volume to determine the count per unit weight or volume.
The method selected should be chosen on the basis of practicability and preference should be given to methods which have applicability for routine use.
Methods shall meet the numerical criteria listed in Table 1 and may either meet the minimum applicable range, or LOD and LOQ criteria listed.
Raw bivalve molluscs shall be of a quality fit for human consumption.
The packing medium and all other ingredients used shall be of food grade quality and conform to all applicable Codex standards.
Raw bivalve molluscs shall be examined by the methods given in Section 2.8.
Raw bivalve molluscs should meet the requirements of 1.5.
Raw bivalve molluscs should meet the requirements of 1.6.
Raw bivalve molluscs shall be labelled by weight, count, count per unit weight, or volume as appropriate to the product.
The label shall specify the conditions for storage and/or temperature that will maintain the food safety and characteristics of the product during transportation, storage and distribution including date of minimum durability and for date of shucking.
Safety claims for bivalve molluscs processed to reduce or limit target organisms should be specific to the target organisms that have been reduced or limited as described in the Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products (CXC 52-2003).
Sampling of lots for examination of net weight shall be carried out in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan meeting the criteria established by the CAC.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with procedures elaborated in Sections 2.8.3 through 2.8.7, and Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CXG 31-1999).
The net weight and drained weight of all sample units shall be determined by the procedures described or mentioned in Sections 2.8.3.1 through 2.8.3.5.
(v) The resultant figure will be the total net content.
determined in the frozen state.
The AOAC official method 963.26 should be used to determine the net weight of products with water added that is inside a "block-frozen" product.
In the case of shucked bivalve molluscs, the drained weight shall be determined according to AOAC official method 953.11.
The complete thawing of the product is determined by gently squeezing the bag occasionally so as not to damage the texture of the bivalve molluscs, until no hard core or ice crystals are left.
Chilli peppers for industrial processing are excluded.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the chilli peppers must be: ­ whole, the stalk (stem) may be missing, provided that the break is clean and the adjacent skin is not damaged; ­ sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; ­ firm; ­ clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; ­ practically free of pests and damage caused by them affecting the general appearance of the produce; ­ free of abnormal external moisture excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; ­ free of any foreign smell and/or taste; ­ free of damage caused by low and/or high temperatures.
Chilli peppers are classified in three classes defined below:
The development and condition of the chilli peppers must be such as to enable them: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
They must be free of defects, with the exception of very slight superficial defects affecting an area of up to 0.5% of the produce surface, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package.
Size is determined by length of the chilli pepper in accordance with the following table: Size code Length (in centimetres) 1 ≤ 4 2 4 ≤ 8 3 8 ≤ 12 4 12 ≤ 16 5 > 16
Chilli peppers shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
7.2 The produce covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
8.2 The produce should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and the variety and may be labelled as to the level of pungency.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the chayotes must be: - whole; - sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; - practically free of damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage ; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste; - firm; - fresh in appearance; - free of damage caused by low temperatures; - practically free of bruising; - free of damage caused by the sun; - free of fibrous flesh; - free of hard spines; - free of visible signs of germination.
Chayotes are classified in three classes defined below:
The development and condition of the chayotes must be such as to enable them: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
The produce should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
In chemistry, verification of the identity of the entity involved or of the activity, requires a description of the structure and properties of that entity or activity.
In the case of edible cassava flour prepared from bitter cassava ( Manihot utilissima Pohl), detoxification is carried out by soaking the tubers in water for a few days, before they undergo drying in the form of whole, pounded tuber (paste) or in small pieces.
3.1.3 Edible cassava flour shall be free from filth (impurities of animal origin, including dead insects) in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
The product covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General standard for contaminants and toxins in food and feed (CXS 193-1995).1
The product covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC).
– shall be free from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; – shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and – shall not contain any substance originating from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended methods of analysis and sampling (CXS 234-1999)4 relevant to the provisions in this standard shall be used.
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “edible cassava flour”.
Conform with legislation of the country in which the product is sold None defined PARTICLE SIZE None defined fine flour Min: 90% shall pass through a 0.60 mm sieve coarse flour Min: 90% shall pass through a 1.20 mm sieve
The products covered by this Standard shall comply with the Maximum Levels for contaminants that are specified for the product in the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995).
Where allowed in accordance with the General Principles for the Addition of Essential Nutrients to Foods (CXG 9-1987), maximum and minimum levels for minerals and other nutrients, where appropriate, should be laid down by national legislation in accordance with the needs of individual country including, where appropriate, the prohibition of the use of particular nutrients.
The holder/seller shall be responsible for observing such conformity.
Where the product is not classified the tolerances for Class II apply.
The development and condition of the ware potatoes must be such as to enable them to: • withstand transportation and handling; and • arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
Ware potatoes must be sufficiently developed with cured skin, with account being taken of the characteristics of the variety and/or commercial type and the area in which they are grown.
The visible part of the contents of the package (or lot for produce presented in the bulk transport vehicle) must be representative of the entire contents. However, a mixture of distinctly different ware potatoes of different skin colours (except green) may be packed together in a sales package, provided they are uniform in quality and, for each variety concerned, in origin.
Ware potatoes shall be packed in each package in compliance with the appropriate sections of the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
For produce transported in bulk the se particulars must appear on a document accompanying the good, and attached in a visible position in the transport vehicle, unless the document is replaced by an electronic solution in that case the identification should be machine readable and easily accessible.
The produce covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the contaminants and toxins in accordance with the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995).
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce “Ware Potato” and should be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type.
In case of a mixture of distinctly different varieties of ware potatoes of different origins, the indication of each country of origin shall appear next to the name of the variety concerned.
In the case of a mixture of distinctly different varieties of ware potatoes of different origins, the indication of each country of origin shall appear next to the name of the variety concerned.
The following code of hygienic practice applies to desiccated coconut, the dried product prepared for human consumption without requiring further processing which is obtained by shredding or otherwise comminuting the pared kernel of coconuts, the fruit of the palm, Cocos nucifera.
Paring - the removal of the brown skin around the kernel.
Conveyances for transporting the harvested crop, which may have the husk removed on the plantation, should be adequate for the purpose and should be of such material and construction as will
Detergents and disinfectants employed should be appropriate to the purpose and should be so used as to present no hazard to public health.
It should be so frequently changed that the possibility of contamination is kept to a minimum and the water should not be recirculated unless suitably treated, for example by filtration and chlorination, to maintain it in a condition as will not constitute a public health hazard.
Management should take care to ensure that no person, while known to be affected with a disease capable of being transmitted through food, or known to be a carrier of such disease microorganisms, or while afflicted with infected wounds, sores, or any illness, is permitted to work in any area of a food plant in a capacity in which there is a likelihood of such person contaminating food or food contact surfaces with pathogenic organisms.
The packaging material should be approved by the official agency and, for example, may comprise multi-wall
(f) Gloves used in food handling should be maintained in a sound, clean and sanitary condition; gloves should be made of an impermeable material except where their usage would be inappropriate or incompatible with the work involved.
Preparatory operations leading to the finished product and the packaging operations should be so timed as to permit expeditious handling of consecutive units in production under conditions which would prevent contamination, deterioration, spoilage, or the development of infectious or toxigenic microorganisms.
After washing and before shredding, the coconut meat should be subjected to an effective process to eliminate pathogenic organisms from the surface of the meat, such as immersion in an adequate quantity of boiling water for a period of not less than one and a half minutes.
Such implements should be cleaned, washed, and disinfected after each period of work and at least twice daily, by means approved by the official agency, and suitable racks or other places provided for their placing when not in use, such that they do not become contaminated.
After drying, the desiccated coconut should be cooled before packaging.
The same hygienic precautions should be taken in the packing plant as are appropriate to the packing section of the factory.
Critical areas, equipment and materials should be designated for specific attention as part of a permanent sanitation schedule.
Regular and frequent samples of desiccated coconut should be taken from the packing section and examined for:
Appropriate methods should be used for sampling, analysis, and determination to meet the following specifications.
An editorial correction was made to Section 3.2.1.6 in Table (c) Canned plums/Canned cherries, first line to read 30% m/m instead of 3 30% m/m as value for Maximum limit in drained weight.
Distinct varietal types should be designated for peaches, plums and cherries.
The product shall be substantially free from pits or pieces of pit if greater than 2 mm in dimension, except in the case that the product is unpitted.
Portions of peaches which are obviously near or part of the pit cavity and which after canning may become slightly discoloured are considered to be normal characteristic colour.
The product with special ingredients should have a flavour characteristic of that imparted by the fruit canned and the other substances used.
The canned fruit should be reasonably fleshy of uniform texture and may be variable in tenderness, but should neither be mushy nor excessively firm.
The fruit should be reasonably uniform in size.
Certain common defects should not be present in amounts greater than the following limitations:
In the case of plums and cherries blemishes should not seriously affect the appearance of the products.
The trimming must be excessive and includes serious gouges (whether due to physical trimming or other means) on the surface of the units which definitely detract from the appearance.
The product covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
It is recommended that the products covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General principles of food hygiene (CXC 1-1969) and other relevant Codex texts such as codes of hygienic practice and codes of practice.
A container that fails to meet the requirement for minimum fill (90 percent container capacity) of Section 7.1.1 should be considered as a “defective”.
The drained weight of the product should be not less than the following percentages, calculated on the basis of the weight of distilled water at 20 oC which the sealed container will hold when completely filled.iv
For non-metallic rigid containers such as glass jars, the basis for the determination should be calculated on the weight of distilled water at 20 °C which the sealed container will hold when completely filled less 20 ml.
For checking compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999) relevant to the provisions in this standard shall be used.
(b) The name should include a declaration of any flavouring which characterizes the product, e.g. “with X”, when appropriate.
It contains the minimum requirements of hygiene in the production, processing, handling, packing, storage, transportation and distribution of frog legs to ensure a healthful and wholesome supply of this product.
Frogs should be protected in so far as practicable from contamination with human, animal, domestic, industrial and agricultural wastes and adequate precautions should be taken to ensure that these wastes are not used or disposed of in a manner which may constitute a health hazard through the food.
Such measures should only be carried out in accordance with the recommendations of the official agency having jurisdiction.
The environment where frogs are caught or collected should be protected in so far as practicable against contamination which may constitute a health hazard to the consumer through the product.
Frogs that die, become weak or appear abnormal in any way should be immediately removed from the live store and discarded.
They should be maintained clean, and where necessary disinfected.
Similarly, on arrival, unfit frogs should be removed as soon as possible and segregated for disposal in an appropriate manner. Arrangements for removal and segregation should be approved by the official agency having jurisdiction.
Suitable precautions should be taken to protect the frogs from being contaminated by animals, insects, vermin, birds, chemicals or microbiological contaminants or other objectionable substances during handling and storage.
In butchering and cutting carried out at collection points or cutting centres away from the main processing plant, facilities and operating practices should comply with all applicable requirements contained in Sections 4, 5, 6 and 7, particularly Sub-Section 7.4.1 involving slaughter, cutting and de-skinning.
Establishments should be located in areas which are free from objectionable odours, smoke, dust or other contaminants and are not subject to flooding.
There should be adequate drainage and provision should be made to allow for cleaning.
Chutes should be constructed with inspection and cleaning hatches.
Buildings and facilities should be designed to provide separation, by partition, location or other effective means, between those operations which may cause cross-contamination.
Processing of by-products not intended for human consumption should be conducted in separate buildings or in areas which are physically separated to prevent any possible contamination of frog legs.
Where appropriate, establishments should be so designed that access can be controlled.
The use of material which cannot be adequately cleaned and disinfected, such as wood, should be avoided unless its use would clearly not be a source of contamination.
Adequate facilities should be available to maintain frog legs in a chilled condition, as required.
Refrigeration and freezing equipment should be properly designed and constructed to accomplish rapid freezing and should be of adequate capacity.
Freezer and cold storage facilities should be adequate for the intended production and should be fitted with automatic temperature controlling and recording devices.
They should be easy to clean.
Living quarters, toilets and areas where animals are kept should be completely separated from and should not open directly on to food handling areas.
All effluent lines (including sewer systems) should be large enough to carry peak loads and should be so constructed as to avoid contamination of potable water supplies.
Notices should be posted directing personnel to wash their hands after using the toilet.
The facilities should be furnished with properly trapped waste pipes leading to drains.
These facilities should be constructed of corrosion resistant materials, capable of being easily cleaned, and should be fitted with suitable means of supplying warm and cold water in sufficient quantities.
Where appropriate, the lighting should not alter colours and the intensity should not be less than: 540 lux (50 foot candles) at all inspection points 220 lux (20 foot candles) in work rooms 110 lux (10 foot candles) in other areas.
Ice should be made from potable water and should be manufactured, handled and stored so as to protect it from contamination.
Non-potable water should be carried in completely separate lines, identifiable preferably by colour, and used for steam production, refrigeration, fire control and other similar purposes not connected with food with no cross-connection with or back-siphonage into the system carrying potable water.
Screens should be easily removable for cleaning.
These facilities should be designed to prevent access to waste or inedible material by pests and to avoid contamination of food, potable water, equipment, buildings or roadways on the premises.
The use of different materials in such a way that contact corrosion can occur should be avoided.
Equipment and utensils used for inedible materials should be so identified and should not be used for edible products.
As far as practicable, rooms should be kept free from steam, vapour and surplus water.
Stationary equipment should be installed in such a manner as to permit easy access and thorough cleaning.
Such containers, used on the processing line, should be located below the level at which the frog legs are processed and in such a way that there is no splashback on the processing line.
All cleaning personnel should be well -trained in cleaning techniques.
They should be removed from the working areas as often as necessary and at least daily.
The waste storage area should also be cleaned and disinfected.
Animals that are uncontrolled or that could be a hazard to health should be excluded from establishments.
Any residues of these agents on a surface which may come in contact with food should be removed by thorough rinsing with potable water before the area or equipment is again used for handling food.
Extreme care should be taken to avoid contaminating foods.
Instruction should include relevant parts of this Code.
Medical examination of a food handler should be carried out at other times when clinically or epidemiologically indicated.
Any person so affected should immediately report to the management that he is ill.
Adequate first-aid facilities should be provided for this purpose.
There should be adequate supervision to ensure compliance with this requirement.
Every person engaged in a food handling area should maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness while on duty, and should at all times while so engaged wear suitable protective clothing including head covering and footwear, all of which articles should be cleanable unless designed to be disposed of and should be maintained in a clean condition consistent with the nature of the work in which the person is
Responsibility for ensuring compliance by all personnel with all requirements of paragraphs 5.9 - 6.10, inclusive should be specifically allocated to competent supervisory personnel.
Gloves should be made of an impermeable material except where their usage would be inappropriate or incompatible with the work involved.
Visitors should observe the provisions recommended in paragraphs 5.9, 6.3, 6.4 and 6.7.
7.2.8 All equipment which has been in contact with raw materials or contaminated material should be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected prior to being used for contact with end-products.
Water used for washing and rinsing should comply with the recommendations laid down in Sub-Section 7.3. 7.4.2.2 The washing of the frogs should be done in running water for at least 24 hours in a clean holding tank, with a false bottom of wire, with a series of outlets at one side of the bottom and a series of water inlets at the upper-side opposite the side of the outlets, to remove soil, faeces and slime.
This should be done in a humane manner, e.g. by electricity (and not by putting them in a 10% solution of common salt).
Only sound frogs and frog legs of good quality should be accepted for processing.
After each step of the handling operations, cutting, skinning, trimming and grading, the frog legs should be washed by spraying with water in compliance with Sub-Section 7.4.1.8.
The packaging material should be sound, new and should provide appropriate protection from contamination.
After freezing, the material should be transferred into cold storage, the temperature of which should not be higher than -18oC.
The product should be despatched in the sequence of the lot numbers.
Laboratories checking for pathogenic micro-organisms should be well separated from food processing areas.
Appropriate methods should be used for sampling and examination to determine the compliance with the following specifications:
Only packaging material required for immediate use should be kept in the packing or filling area.
The legs should either be wrapped hygienically, individually in polyethylene film or preferably inserted into small polyethylene bags.
It should account for the possibility of cumulative intake from all dietary sources, and of nutritional imbalance due to changes in dietary patterns in response to information to consumers that lays emphasis on the food or food constituent.
evaluate health claims either periodically or following the emergence of significant new evidence that has the potential to alter previous conclusions about the relationship between the food or food constituent and the health effect.
The health claim must consist of two parts: 1) Information on the physiological role of the nutrient or on an accepted diet-health relationship; followed by 2) Information on the composition of the product relevant to the physiological role of the nutrient or the accepted diet-health relationship unless the relationship is based on a whole food or foods whereby the research does not link to specific constituents of the food.
This standard shall apply to frozen finfish uneviscerated and eviscerated1.
Quick frozen finfish, shall be processed and packaged so as to minimize dehydration and oxidation.
Quick frozen finfish shall be prepared from sound fish which are of a quality fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
All other ingredients used shall be of food grade quality and conform to all applicable Codex and WHO standards.
This shall apply only to species of Clupeidae, Scombridae, Scombresocidae, Pomatomidae and Coryphaenedae families.
(ii) Sampling of lots for examination of net weight shall be carried out in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan meeting the criteria established by the CAC.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with procedures elaborated in Sections 7.3, 7.4 and 7.5, Annex A and the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CAC/GL 31 - 1999).
Expression of uncertainty or variability in risk estimates may be qualitative or quantitative, but should be quantified to the extent that is scientifically achievable.
If such exposure is present, the second step is to evaluate the transfer of hazard(s) to edible product(s) of the food-producing animal.
Any generation of new data should be based on relevant scientific principles and procedures.
Many feed ingredients are produced as co-products or by-products from other production processes, including industrial processes, and an evaluation may need to be made of these processes and their potential for introducing hazards in feed.
34. The first step involves: (a) Identification of feeds which may contribute to intake of a given hazard; (b) Determination of the concentration of the hazard in feed; (c) Calculation of hazard intake by the food-producing animal from relevant feed sources, based on information on feeding practices (quantity, frequency and duration of feed intake) as appropriate.
The conclusions of the risk assessment should be presented in a readily understandable and useful form to the risk manager and made available to other risk assessors and interested parties so that they can review the assessment.
(a) prepared from substantially sound white kernel obtained from the whole nut of coconut (Cocos nucifera L.), having reached appropriate development for processing, without oil extraction in conformity with Section 3.2.4(c); (b) processed in an appropriate manner, undergoing operations such as de-husking, hatcheting, paring, washing, comminuting, drying and sifting; and (c) described in points (a) and (b) from which oil has been partially extracted by appropriate physical means in conformity with Section 3.2.4(c).
The texture shall be characteristic of the product.
The taste shall be characteristic of the product without off-flavours due to deterioration or absorption of extraneous substances.
The odour shall be characteristic of the product, shall not be mouldy, cheesy, smoky, fermented or rancid, and shall not possess any undesirable odour.
Desiccated coconut of which not less than 90 percent of the weight shall pass easily through a sieve with square apertures of 0.85 mm, but of which maximum 25 percent of the weight passes through a sieve of 0.50 mm aperture size.
Desiccated coconut of which not less than 80 percent of the weight shall pass easily through a sieve of square aperture size of 1.40 mm, but of which maximum 20 percent of the weight passes through a sieve of 0.71 mm square aperture size.
Desiccated coconut of which not less than 90 percent of the weight shall pass easily through a sieve of square aperture size of 2.80 mm, but of which maximum 20 percent of the weight passes through a sieve of 1.40 mm square aperture size.
Absence in 100 g
6.2 The product should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).5
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999)8 relevant to the provisions in this standard shall be used.
Desiccated coconut shall be packaged, transported and stored in accordance with the Code of Hygienic Practice for Desiccated Coconut (CXC 4-1971).4
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985),6 the following specific provisions apply:
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).7
5.2 To the extent possible in good manufacturing practice, the product shall be free from objectionable matter.
3.1.3 Durum wheat semolina and durum wheat flour shall be free from filth (impurities of animal origin, including dead insects) in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Durum wheat semolina and durum wheat flour shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
Durum wheat semolina and durum wheat flour shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC) for this commodity.
Durum wheat semolina and durum wheat flour shall comply with those maximum mycotoxin limits established by the CAC for this commodity.
6.3 When the product is packaged in sacks, these must be clean, sturdy and strongly sewn or sealed.
In addition to the requirements of the General standard for the labelling of pre -packaged foods (CXS 1-1985), the following specific provisions apply:
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be 2urum wheat semolina2, 2whole durum wheat semolina2, or 2durum wheat flour2.
- durum wheat semolina Min: 10.5% on a dry basis - whole durum wheat semolina Min: 11.5% on a dry basis - durum wheat flour Min: 11.0% on a dry basis NUTRIENTS Conform with legislation of the country in which the product is sold None defined - vitamins - minerals - amino acids PARTICLE SIZE None defined - durum wheat semolina Max: 79% shall pass through a 315 micron silk gauze or man-made textile sieve - durum wheat flour Min: 80% shall pass through a 315 micron silk gauze or man-made textile sieve
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Container of Foods (CXS 346-2021).
The raw materials shall be stored and handled under hygienic conditions while maintaining their physico-chemical and microbiological characteristics.
It shall be free of all foreign matter.
The products covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The product should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).3
(h) Storage instructions.
Sampling shall be done in accordance with the provisions of ISO 5555:2001 – Animal and vegetable fats and oils sampling.
To ensure compliance with this quality standard, the samples selected as specified in clause 9 shall be tested in accordance with the appropriate testing procedures: Test parameter Method Determination of moisture content - AOAC 920.116 - IUPAC2.60 - ISO 662:1998 Determination of free fatty acid content: acid value and acidity - ISO 660:1996 - IUPAC 2.201 Determination of relative density - IUPAC 2.101 Determination of saponification value - ISO 3657:1988 (revised 1992) - IUPAC 2.202 Determination of iodine value - AOAC 925.56 - ISO 3961:1999 Determination of peroxide value - AOCS cd. 8b - 90 - IUPAC 2501 - ISO 3960:2005 Determination of unsaponifiable matter - ISO 3596-1:1996 - IUPAC 2. 401 Determination of insoluble impurities content - ISO 663:2000 - IUPAC 2604 Determination of melting point - ISO 6321:2002
- ISO 12193:1994 - AOAC 972.25 - AOAC 994.02 - IUPAC 2632
Acid value: lard 1.3 mg KOH/g fat = ffa max 0.65% premier jus 2.0 mg KOH/g fat = ffa max 1.00% rendered pork fat 2.5 mg KOH/g fat = ffa max 1.25% edible tallow 2.5 mg KOH/g fat = ffa max 1.25% Peroxide value: up to 10 milliequivalents active oxygen/kg fat
Iodine value (Wijs) 55–65 60–72 36–47 40–53 Unsaponifiable matter (g/kg) ≤ 10 ≤ 12 ≤ 10 ≤ 12
The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995).2
The name of the fat shall conform to the descriptions given in Section 2 of this standard.
Equal to or above 45% but less than 55%: 54% Equal to or above 55%: 59% Compositional modifications beyond the minima and maxima specified above for milk fat and dry matter are not considered to be in compliance with Section 4.3.3 of the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999).
It is recommended that the product covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), the Code of Hygienic Practice for Milk and Milk Products (CXC 57-2004) and other relevant Codex texts such as Codes of Hygienic Practice and Codes of Practice The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accord ance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
In selecting a sampling plan, it should be ensured that producers are not exposed to unreasonable costs in terms of sampling and testing, loss of yields, or excessive rejection of their products to achieve compliance.
However, offsets should be used with caution in the interest of fairness to producers.
The use of offsets enables a reduction in sample size; for example, while large sample sizes are needed to show that a lot cont ains no more than say 1 percent nonconforming product, much smaller sample sizes are required to show that no more than 10 percent of the product in a lot exceeds a tightened limit.
The term measurement error should not be used, as the term has been superseded by the focus on uncertainty across JCGM,xi ISO and EURACHEMxii standards and guides, as reflected in the Guidelines on Measurement Uncertainty (CXG 54-2004)2 and as adopted in the present guidelines.
However, specification of the lot size is required for attributes plans applied to small lots and it is an input in the sampling plans described in the ISO 2859xiii and ISO 3951xiv standards (see Sections 0, 0 and Appendix II).
The following diagram shows the process for the selection of attributes sampling plans as it depends on the type of data and nature of the lot.
Appendix II contains tables for inspection by attributes plans from ISO 2859-1.6 These plans are indexed by the PRQ.
ZAN plans for finite lots can also be designed based on the hypergeometric distribution.
Three-class plans for finite lots can be designed based on the hypergeometric distribution.
Note that this approach should be used only when measurement uncertainty is negligible.
One way of doing this is by superimposing imaginary grids over the material.
If the aggregate sample is larger than the laboratory sample, the laboratory sample should be removed in a random manner from the aggregate sample in such a way to ensure the laboratory sample is still representative of the sublot sampled.
The basic sampling and inspection procedure can be described as follows: • segments, from which increments are to be taken, are chosen at random; • several increments are chosen at random from each of the chosen segments; • the increments from each segment can sometimes be combined to form a composite sample, which is thoroughly mixed; • one or more subsamples are taken from each composite sample; • these subsamples are tested; and • acceptability of the lot is decided based on an acceptance criterion.
Either way, a preliminary study is needed to estimate the correlation and the variation between segments; and • the proposed plans should be validated using different statistical models for the behaviour of the level nonconforming within the lot, to ensure robustness against different levels of correlation.
A minimum of ten samples per segment is recommended to estimate the within lot variability, if the acceptance criterion involves averaging of multiple test results, laboratory samples should be tested at least in duplicate to allow estimation of the repeatability component of measurement uncertainty, unless an estimate is available from other sources such as a method validation study.
However, the only definitive way to assess whether an adjustment for measurement uncertainty is required is to examine the OC curve for the proposed sampling plan in the presence of measurement uncertainty (see Section 2.3.1).
In determining measurement uncertainty, it is important to take account of all relevant contributions, including all sampling and analytical sources.
If an estimate of the between -laboratory SD is available, it is impor tant to consider whether it constitutes a reliable characterization of the variation of laboratory bias, in the sense that the estimate was obtained on the basis of data from a sufficiently large number of laboratories (see the Guidelines on Measurement Uncertainty [CXG 54-2004]2 Sections 16, 17 and 18).
In this case the observed standard deviation s calculated from all the data is adjusted by subtracting the quantity bd12 u b2 where u is the standard deviation of the differences between the results for each pair of duplicate samples:  a2sadj 2 = 2 12.
Determine the number of samples and the acceptance number (attributes plans) or the acceptability constant (variables plans) Supporting material Context Term Explanation Nature of the provision Provision A provision is a requirement for a commodity that must be met in order that the commodity conforms to the standard.
The values of n and c are worked out from the specified levels of allowable risk.
These plans are specified by the number of samples required to be taken (n) and an acceptability constant (k).
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the nopals must be: - whole; - sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of damage caused by pests; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste; - firm; - free of damage caused by low temperatures; - free of prickles; - free of pronounced blemishes; - sufficiently developed and display satisfactory ripeness, depending on the nature of the produce. They must have a shape, colour, taste and smell characteristic of the species.
Nopals are classified in three classes defined below:
­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
The visible part of the contents of the package (or lot for produce presented in bulk) must be representative of the entire contents.
Nopals shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Recommended International Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44-1995).
For produce transported in bulk these particulars must appear on a document accompanying the goods.
Packages (or lot for produce presented in bulk) must be free of all foreign matter and smell.
Processing aids used in products covered by this standard shall comply with the Guidelines on substances used as processing aids (CXG 75-2010).
5.2 The products covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits (MRLs) for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
Product covered by this standard shall consist of the following ingredients: (a) Soybeans (any variety); (b) Mould of Rhizopus spp. (R. oligosporus,R. oryzae and/or R. stolonifer) mix with cooked rice powder, rice bran powder and/or wheat bran powder as an inocula.
Any container that fails to meet the applicable quality requirements referred to in Section 3.2 should be considered as a “defective”.
Tempe shall be free from foreign matters (e.g. other beans, small stone, husk etc).
The products should comply with the microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
7.1. The products covered by the provisions of this Standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepacked Foods (CXS 1-1985). 7.2 Name of the product The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “Tempe”.
It is recommended that the product covered by the provisions of this Standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), and other relevant Codex texts such as Codes of Hygienic Practice and Codes of Practice.
The products covered by the provisions of this Standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepacked Foods (CXS 1-1985).
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “Tempe”.
These include: - mail receiving facilities to ensure that documents and other mail from the Codex Secretariat and elsewhere are received in good condition and with minimal delay; - telephone, facsimile (if available) and other appropriate communication facilities; - adequate shelving or other storage capacity to handle the many Codex documents received for distribution, to maintain a library for future reference, for files, etc.; - desks, tables and office equipment for duplicating, sorting, collating and compiling documents in preparation for their distribution; - facilities to promptly disseminate and/or distribute Codex documents, publications and other data to concerned government ministries and authorities, as well as to industry, consumer, scientific and other organisations technical libraries and interested companies or individuals; - clerical, translation (where necessary) and secretarial assistance for office duties and for drafting correspondence, sending out documents, coordinating responses to questionnaires, arranging meetings and consultations, translating documents, typing and the many other tasks which inevitable arise; - adequate recording systems in which to maintain address lists and registers of subjects in which particular industry and consumer representatives as well as individuals are interested; and - adequate funding to ensure that the functions of the Codex Contact Point can be performed efficiently and effectively.
In addition to strengthening the Contact Point it was recognized that it was also very important to establish a National Codex Committee (NCC) to supplement the work being carried out by the Contact Point and also so as to involve all concerned ministries/agencies, industry and consumers.
6. Others concerned or assigned by the government.
Experiments and research projects will be conducted in collaboration with other local organizations, both governmental and private sectors, to obtain data necessary for consideration of national comment and acceptance of Codex Standards and MRLs.
