Competent authorities should develop a framework and plan to facilitate the evaluation and review of monitoring and/or surveillance activities, which may include the following:
Training of relevant stakeholders at the national level on different aspects of the monitoring and surveillance programme(s) is recommended.
The latter standard requires that information regarding measurement uncertainty must be provided in test reports insofar as it is relevant to the validity or application of the test results, in response to a customer's request, or when the uncertainty affects conformity to a specification limit.
Since all measurement results are subject to error, laboratories are expected to estimate and, if necessary, report the measurement uncertainty associated with every result.
It is stated under Principle 5 that “the exporting country and the importing country should agree on how the analytical measurement uncertainty is taken into account when assessing the conformity of a measurement against a legal limit.”
They shall have the characteristics of the species Pennisetum americanum L.
Pearl millet grains shall be free from filth (impurities of animal origin, including dead insects) in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Also, whole and decorticated pearl millet grains shall be practically free from dirt, animal debris, mineral particles and diseased grains.
Pearl millet grains shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Pearl millet grains shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC) for this commodity.
Pearl millet grains shall comply with those maximum mycotoxin limits established by the CAC for this commodity.
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “millet grains”, or “decorticated millet grains”.
Those sections of this Code that require specific food safety requirements beyond those contained in the Recommended International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969, Rev.3 (1997)), due to specific transportation characteristics, are noted and the specific requirements are detailed. This code is not applicable to, and do not take precedence over, other Codex commodity - specific codes already in existence for such commodities in bulk, for example the Recommended International Code of Practice for the Storage and Transport of Edible Oils and Fats in Bulk (CAC/RCP 36-1987, Rev.1 – 1999).
The code of hygienic practice for the transport of bulk and semi-packed foods: identifies additional requirements of food hygiene applicable to the Recommended International Code of Practice – General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969, Rev 3 (1997)) applicable to the condition of the food transportation unit and the loading, transport, in-transit storage and unloading of bulk and semi-packed foods to ensure that food remains safe and suitable for human consumption. indicates how to implement these controls, and provides ways to verify that these controls have been applied.
Examples of foods included in this code include: Food transported from the packaging or processing facility to a retail/distribution establishment, Food transported from one process/distribution facility to another or from a process/distribution facility to another or from a process/distribution facility to a retail establishment, Food transported from collection points, elevators, storage facilities, etc., to processing plants/distribution sites, or retail markets.
Semi-packed food: Semi-packed food is a food which might come in direct contact with the food transportation unit or the atmosphere (e.g. vegetables and food in crates and bags).
All sub-sections of the provisions of the Recommended International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1- 1969, Rev.3 (1997)) and, as appropriate, other Codex Codes of Hygienic Practice, shall be applied.
The provisions of the Recommended International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1- 1969, Rev.3 (1997)) and, as appropriate, other Codex Codes of Hygienic Practice, shall be applied.
A complete record of previous cargoes should be kept over a period of six months by the transporter.
Where appropriate consideration should be given to food transportation unit's dedicated to single commodity use.
Bulk food in liquid, granulated or powder form must be transported in receptacles and/or containers/tankers reserved for the transport of food unless the application of principles such as HACCP demonstrates that dedicated transport for these products is not necessary to achieve the same level of food safety.
Where necessary, there should be disinfection with subsequent rinsing unless manufacturers instruction indicates on a scientific basis that rinsing is not required.
The General Principles of Food Hygiene should apply to all personnel in contact with the food.
Personnel should be trained on food transportation unit inspection procedures for food safety.
To maintain sanitary conditions, facilities should be provided for the storage of pipes, hoses and other equipment used in the transfer of foods.
Caviar shall be prepared from fish eggs extracted from sound and wholesome sturgeons of biological species of the genera described in Section 2.2, which are of a quality fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
Salt shall be of food grade quality and conform to all applicable Codex Standards.
The product shall be examined by the methods given in Section 8.
The product shall be packed in: - metal tins coated inside with stable food lacquer or enamel; - glass jars; - other suitable food-grade containers.
For the Acipenseridae family, the name of the food shall be “caviar” or “caviar” completed with the usual name (Beluga for Huso huso, Ossetra for Acipenser guldenstaedtii and Acipenser persicus, Sevruga for Acipenser stellatus), in accordance with the law and custom of the country in which the product is sold, in a manner not to mislead the consumer.
The labelling shall include terms to indicate that the product shall be stored under appropriate time/temperature conditions.
In case of repackaging of the product the facility registration code shall be identified.
Samples taken for sensory and physical/chemical examination shall be assessed by person trained in such examination and in accordance with the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CXG 31-1999).
The net weight (excluding packaging material) of each sample unit in the sample lot shall be determined by deducting the weight of the empty container from the total weight.
The determination of salt content is performed according to the method described in the Standard for Salted Fish and Dried Salted Fish of the Gadidae Family of Fishes (CXS 167- 1989).
The designations “Petit Saint-Paulin” and “Mini Saint-Paulin” should be used when the cheese complies with the provisions for dimensions and weights (1.2).
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) and the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999), the following specific provisions apply.
A slice of 2 cm 3 cm is cut off and sent to the laboratory in a sealed insulated box for analysis.
(**) Processing aids are any substance or material, not including apparatus or utensils, and not consumed as a food ingredient by itself, intentionally used in the processing of raw materials, foods, or its ingredients, to fulfil a certain technological purpose during treatment or processing and which may result in the non-intentional but unavoidable presence of residues or derivatives in the final product.
The Codex maximum level (ML) for a contaminant in a food or feed commodity is the maximum concentration of that substance recommended by the Codex Alimentarius Commission to be legally permitted in that commodity.
MLs shall be clearly defined with respect to status and intended use.
The following criteria should (not preventing the use of other relevant criteria) be considered when developing MLs and/or other measures in connection with the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (Further details about these criteria are given in Annex I).
Special attention to this aspect is necessary in the case of contaminants that may not be homogeneously distributed in the product (e.g. mycotoxins in some commodities).
When results about food groups and about effects of preparation and cooking etc. are available, these should also be supplied.
Numerical values for MLs should preferably be regular figures in a geometric scale (0.01, 0.02, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 1, 2, 5, etc.), unless this may pose problems in the acceptability of the MLs.
Risk assessment and risk management are conducted in accordance with the Working Principles for Risk Analysis for Food Safety for Application by Governments (CXG 62-2007).
Then a detailed study about all the aspects involved is necessary, so that decisions about maximum levels can be based on a thorough evaluation of both the public health arguments and the potential problem with complying with the proposed standard.
the intake of a contaminant by the different food producing animal species and the resulting levels in the food of animal origin should be estimated.
The procedure involves assessment of the dietary intake in relation to the proposed or existing MLs and the toxicological reference value.
Statements from Governments about the non-acceptance of (proposed) Codex MLs should refer to specified intake calculations and risk management conclusions, which support this position.
3 Reference to a source-directed measure or a related code of practice for the contaminant, if appropriate. 3 List of Codex maximum levels or guideline levels for that contaminant; this list shall be composed of the following elements, in columns: - feed/food commodity/product name; - Numerical value of maximum level or guideline level and units in which it is expressed; - Portion of the Commodity/Product to which the maximum level or guideline level applies; - Notes/Remarks, including reference to relevant Codex commodity standards and where necessary, definition of the commodity product.
In case a ML or GL applies to a product group (e.g. legume vegetables), the ML or GL applies to all individual products belonging to the group as defined in CXM 4 For any other commodities or products other than those described above, where necessary, the definition of the commodity/product is provided in “Notes/Remarks”.
Definition of the contaminant in the form of which the ML or GL applies or which may or should be analysed in commodities/products.
All weights should be in the same mass units such as kg.
If the aggregate sample is larger than desired, it should be blended and subdivided until the desired laboratory sample size is achieved.
As a general rule, the width of the diverter cup opening should be about three times the largest dimensions of the items in the lot.
Also, environmental temperature and relative humidity should be controlled and not favour mould growth and aflatoxin formation.
After grinding, the grinder should be cleaned to prevent DON cross-contamination.
Otherwise, the 25 g test portion should be the accumulation of several small portions selected throughout the laboratory sample.
The sample should be finely ground and mixed thoroughly using a process that approaches as complete a homogenization as possible.
A better homogenization (finer grind – slurry) can be obtained by more sophisticated equipment, resulting in a lower sample preparation variance.
A minimum test portion size of 100 g taken from the laboratory sample.
These methods are regularly monitored and improved depending upon technology.
Results should be reported on the edible portion of the sample.
To assist member countries implement the above sampling plan, sample selection methods, sample preparation methods, and analytical methods required to quantify aflatoxin in laboratory samples taken from bulk dried fig lots are described in the following sections.
The minimum lot weight should be 500 kg.
All sizes should be in the same mass units such as kg.
The number and/or size of incremental samples will have to be larger than that suggested in Table 1 for lots sizes below 25 000 kg in order to obtain an aggregate sample greater than or equal to the 20 kg laboratory sample.
As a general rule, the width of the diverter cup opening should be about two to three times the largest dimensions of items in the lot.
A record must be kept of each sampling, permitting each lot to be identified unambiguously and giving the date and place of sampling together with any additional information likely to be of assistance to the analyst.
After grinding, the grinder should be cleaned to prevent fumonisin cross-contamination.
A better homogenization (finer grind), such as a liquid slurry, can be obtained by more sophisticated equipment and should provide the lowest sample preparation variance.
If the laboratory sample is prepared using a liquid slurry, the slurry should contain 50 g of nut mass.
Otherwise, the 50 g test portion should be the accumulation of several small portions selected throughout the laboratory sample.
For lots less than 10 tons, the size of the aggregate sample is reduced so that the aggregate sample size doesn’t exceed a significant portion of the lot or sublot size.
In most cases any truck or container will have to be unloaded to allow representative sampling to be carried out.
The suggested minimum weight of the incremental sample is 300 g for lots and sublots of various sizes.
Otherwise, the test portion should be the accumulation of several small portions selected throughout the laboratory sample.
Equation 4: RSDR = 22.0 Equation 5: RSDR = 45.25C-0.15 where: RSDR = the relative standard deviation calculated from results generated under reproducibility conditions RSDr = the relative standard deviation calculated from results generated under repeatability conditions = 0.66RSDR C = aflatoxin concentration or mass of aflatoxin to mass of dried figs (i.e. ng/g)
is larger than the within laboratory uncertainty measured in the sampling studies for the three dried figs.
Otherwise, reject the lot
A portion of the comminuted laboratory sample is randomly removed for the extraction of the aflatoxin for chemical analysis.
For lots traded in individual packages, the sampling frequency (SF), or number of packages that incremental samples are taken from, is a function of the lot weight (LT), incremental sample weight (IS), aggregate sample weight (AS) and the individual packing weight (IP), as follows: SF = (LT x IS)/(AS x IP).
Otherwise, reject the lot.
The suggested minimum weight of the incremental sample should be 100 grams for lots ≥ 0.5 tons.
A portion of the comminuted laboratory sample is randomly removed for the extraction of the DON for chemical analysis.
The ML applies also to apple juice used as an ingredient in other beverages.
If the As-tot concentration is above the ML for As-in, follow-up testing shall be conducted to determine if the As-in concentration is above the ML.
If the As-tot concentration is above the ML for As-in, follow-up testing shall be conducted to determine if the As-in concentration is above the ML. 0.4 Whole commodity
Celery and asparagus: remove adhering soil.
The final product shall meet the following general requirements:
The product covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum limits for contaminants and the maximum residues limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The product shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985):
The name of the food shall be "Foul Medames”.
19. Traceability/product tracing tool within the context of a food inspection and certification system should be implemented when and as appropriate on a case by case basis.
It should not be mandatory for an exporting country to replicate (i.e. establish the same) the traceability/product tracing tool as used by the importing country, when applicable.
Coulommiers intended for further processing need not exhibit the same extent of ripening when justified through technical and/or trade needs.
Fat in dry matter content(m/m): Corresponding minimum dry matter content (m/m): Equal to or above 40% but less than 50%: 42% Equal to or above 50% but less than 60%: 46% Equal to or above 60%: 52% Compositional modifications beyond the minima and maxima specified above for milkfat and dry matter are not considered to be in compliance with Section 4.3.3 of the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999).
It is recommended that the product covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), the Code of Hygienic Practice for Milk and Milk Products (CXC 57-2004) and other relevant Codex texts such as codes of hygienic practice and codes of practice The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
The milk fat content shall be declared in a manner found acceptable in the country of retail sale either (i) as a percentage by mass, (ii) as a percentage of fat in dry matter, or ( iii) in grams per serving as quantified in the label, provided that the number of servings is stated.
– control the disposal of solid and liqui d domestic and industrial waste, including its deposition on land, disposal of sewage sludge and incineration of municipal waste; – control the production, sale, use and disposal of certain toxic, environmentally-persistent substances, e.g. organohalogen c ompounds (PCBs, brominated flame retardants, etc.), lead , cadmium and mercury compounds;
– ensure that before new chemicals are introduced onto the market, and especially if they may eventually be released into the environment in significant amounts, they have undergone appropriate testing to show their acceptability from the health and environmental points of view; – replace toxic environmentally-persistent substances by products which are more acceptable from the health and environmental points of view.
It should be used in conjunction with appropriate texts and manuals on the subject.
Food should not be grown or produced in areas where the water used for irrigation might constitute a health
Adequate precautions should be taken to ensure that these wastes are not used and are not disposed of in a manner which may constitute a health hazard through the food.
For this purpose standard microbiological procedures should be used (See Speck, (1984); ICMSF, (1980); US FDA BAM, (1984)).
The salvor should, as soon as possible, supply the appropriate agency having jurisdiction with the results of the assessment of the adverse conditions as well as the types and quantities of food products involved.
Before commencing with any salvage operations, the salvor should notify the owner or legal agency of all affected product and provide an inventory of the affected product to the appropriate agency having jurisdiction.
If salvage operations are not feasible then all product should be disposed of as soon as possible in a manner described in Section 4.2.
Methods and procedures associated with harvesting and production sho uld be hygienic and such as not to constitute a potential health hazard or result in contamination of the product.
Those which cannot be made fit by further processing should be disposed of in such a place and in such a manner as to avoid contamination of the food and/or water supplies or other food materials.
Precautions should be taken to avoid damage.
They should be cleaned and maintained clean, and wh ere necessary disinfected and disinfested.
A note should be made as to the source of the can (sample), e.g., from an inspector, or from a domicile or establishment where there has been an outbreak of food poisoning.
There are sections in the report concerning the interpretation of the results of these procedures and guidance on where hygiene problems may exist so that corrective action can be taken.
Microbiological evaluation of the contents should be carried out according to the procedures outlined in "Guideline Procedures to Establish Microbiological Causes of Spoilage in Canned Foods", or "Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Analytical Chemists", 14th ed., sections 46.063 - 46.070.
Where appropriate, angles between walls, between walls and floors and between walls and ceilings should be sealed and coved to facilitate cleaning.
Establishments should have an efficient effluent and waste disposal system which should at all times be
The following list some examples of not reconditionable containers: - containers with any indication of swelling, with the exception of intentionally pressurized containers and some containers which by virtue of their shape, size or type of contents are prone to overfilling and appear slightly swollen.
Their design, structure and installation should ensure that such containers do not become contaminated or unacceptable because of damage.
Where open canal cookers, spray cookers and heat exchangers are used to achieve commercial sterility of acidified low-acid foods they must be designed, installed, operated and maintained in accordance with applicable safety standards of the agency having jurisdiction.
The interpretation of the laboratory data in Tables 2 and 3 as well as figures 2 and 3 (Appendix 2) should be considered together with the overall pattern of the particular spoilage incident being investigated and the product history.
Any residues of these agents on a surface which may come into contact with food should be removed by thorough rinsing with water, in compliance the General Principles of Food Hygiene referred to in Sub-Section 4.4.1.1, before the area or equipment is again used for handling of food.
Visitors should observe the provisions recommended in Sub-Sections 5.9, 6.3, 6.4 and 6.7 of this code.
All steps in the process, including canning, should be performed under conditions which will prevent contamination, deterioration, and/or the growth of microorganisms of public health significance i n the food product.
The exhausting of containers for the removal of air should be controlled so as to meet the conditions for which the scheduled process was designed. As stated in Sub-section 7.4.6 of the principal document.
The equipment manufacturer's or supplier's instructions should be followed meticulously.
The sea area should be free from product contamination.
The dimension of each measurement is indicated in figure 1. Prior to tearing down the double seam, measure and record the following: a) countersink depth (A) b) double seam width (length or height) (W) c) double seam thickness (S) The following measurements and evaluations should be made on the torn down seam: a) body hook length (BH)
Where the container does not permit the code to be embossed or inked, the label should be legibly perforated or otherwise marked, and securely affixed to the product container.
The identification of code lots on cases and trays is desirable.
The accumulation of stationary containers on moving conveyors should be kept to a minimum, as this may also damage containers.
Where necessary, filled and sealed containers should be thoroughly washed before sterilization to remove grease, dirt and product from the outside of the container.
It should be emphasized that acidification and heat processing of acidified low-acid canned foods are very critical operations involving public health risks and appreciable losses of finished product if inadequately processed.
The product code (identity) should correspond clearly to a complete and accurate product specification containing at least the following where applicable: - full receipt and preparation procedures; - pH; - in-going weight of product(s), including liquor where appropriate; - headspace; - drained weight; - maximum dimensions of product components; - temperature of product at filling; and - consistency.
Appropriate records should be maintained.
It should be emphasized that the thermal processing of low-acid canned foods is a very critical operation, involving public health risks and appreciable losses of finished product if under-sterilization occurs.
It is extremely important that the package dimensions, particularly the depth or thickness, shall be as specified in the scheduled process.
The initial temperature of the contents of the coldest containers to be processed should be determined and recorded with sufficient frequency to ensure that the temperature of the product is no lower than the minimum initial temperature specified in the scheduled process.
If the finished equilibrium pH of the food is above 4.0 the measurement of the finished equilibrium pH shall be by a potentiometric method.
Procedures for acidification to attain acceptable pH levels in the final food include, but are not limited to the following:
Therefore it should be routinely checked and adjusted as necessary.
The recorder should agree as closely as possible (preferably within 0.5 oC (1 oF)) and should not be higher than the indicating
An adjustable pressure relief valve of a capacity sufficient to prevent undesired increase in retort pressure and approved by the agency having jurisdiction should be fitted.
These should be checked as often as necessary to ensure accuracy.
Thermometers should be installed where they can be accurately and easily read.
The steam inlet to each retort should be large enough to provide sufficient steam for proper operation of the retort, and should enter at a suitable point to facilitate air removal during venting.
Retorts using air for pressure cooling should be equipped with an adequate tight closing valve and piping arrangement on the air line to prevent air leakage into the retort during processing.
Centering guides should be installed in vertical retorts to ensure adequate clearance between the retort crate and the retort wall.
The number of perforations in spreaders for both horizontal and vertical still retorts should be such that the total cross-sectional area of the perforations is equal to 1 1/2 to 2 times the cross-sectional area of the smallest part of the steam inlet line.
Crates, trays, gondolas, dividers, etc., for holding product containers should be so constructed that steam can adequately be circulated around the containers during the venting, coming-up and sterilization times.
A means of preventing unauthorized speed changes on retorts should be provided.
The retort operator should observe and periodically record how this bleeder is functioning.
Where the scheduled process specifies maintenance of particular temperatures of water in the hydrostatic water legs, at least one indicating thermometer should be located in each hydrostatic water leg so that it can accurately measure water temperature and be easily read.
Additional temperature recorder probes should be installed in the hydrostatic water legs if the scheduled process specifies maintenance of particular temperatures in these hydrostatic water legs.
Bleeders should be of suitable size, (e.g., 3 mm (1/8 in.)) and location and should be fully open during the entire process, including the come -up-time and should be suitable located in the steam chamber or chambers to remove air which may enter with the steam.
Before the start of processing operations, the retort steam chamber or chambers should be vented to ensure removal of air.
The speed of the container conveyor should be specified in the scheduled pro cess and should be determined
A daily inspection of mercury-in-glass thermometers should be made to detect, and if found, replace thermometers with divided mercury columns or other defects.
In both vertical and horizontal retorts, the thermometer bulbs should extend directly into the water for a minimum of at least 5 cm (2 in.).
In any case, care should be taken that the steam does not strike the controller bulb directly.
The valve should be suitably screened to prevent blockage by floating containers or debris.
A pressure recorder device is needed and may be combined with a pressure controller.
The steam inlet should be large enough to provide sufficient steam for proper operation of the retort.
Special equipment will be required to ensure that the thickness of filled flexible containers will not exceed that specified in the scheduled process and that they will not become displaced and over lap one another during the thermal process.
A screened, non-clogging, water-tight valve should be used.
There should be a means of determining the water level in the retort during operation (e.g. by using a water gauge glass or petcock(s)). Water should adequately cover the top layer of containers during the entire coming-up, sterilizing and cooling periods. This water level should be at least 15 cm (6 in.) over the top layer of product containers in the retort.
If air is used to promote circulation it should be introduced into the steam line at a point between the retort and the steam control valve at the bottom of the retort.
In retorts processing glass jars the cooling water should be introduced in a manner which avoids direct impingement on the jars, in order to prevent breakage by thermal shock.
The air pressure in the headspace of the retort should be controlled throughout the process.
Checks for correct operation should be made during each processing cycle, for example, alarm systems to indicate malfunction of water circulation.
Thermometers which do not meet these requirements should be replaced.
The recording thermometer probe should be located adjacent to the bulb of the indicating thermometer.
The device should be installed in the product holding section outlet in such a way that it does not interfere with product flow.
The temperature sensor should be located in the sterilized product at the holding section outlet in such a way that it does not interfere with the product flow.
It should be capable of ensuring that the desired product sterilization temperature is maintained.
One pressure sensor should be installed at the sterilized product regenerator outlet, and the other pressure sensor should be installed at the unsterilized product regenerator inlet.
The product flow rate, which is the critical factor controlling the sterilization holding time, should be checked with sufficient frequency to ensure that it is as specified in the scheduled process.
Product flow should be directed either to waste or recirculated until the cause of the improper pressure relationship has been corrected and the affected system(s) has been returned to a condition of commercial sterility.
The holding section should be designed so that no portion between the product inlet and the product outlet can be heated.
Prior to the start of aseptic processing operations, the product sterilizer should be brought to a condition of commercial sterility.
When product temperature in the holding section drops below the temperature specified in the scheduled process, the product in the holding section and any downstream portions affected should be diverted to recirculation or waste and the system returned to a condition of commercial sterility before flow is resumed to the filter.
Where a batch system is used for container sterilization, the sterilization conditions should be recorded.
A means of preventing unauthorized speed changes should be provided.
Prior to the start of filling, both the container and closure sterilizing system and the product filling and closing system should be brought to a condition of commercial sterility.
Systems for thermal processing of acidified low-acid foods in hermetically sealed containers should conform to the applicable requirements of this Code and should ensure that the methods and controls used for the manufacture, processing and/or packaging of such foods are operated and administered in a manner adequate to achieve commercial sterility.
A record should be made of the evaluation procedures used, the results obtained and the actions taken on the product involved. As stated in Sub-Section 7.7 of the principal document.
Such scheduled processes must be established in accordance with Sub-Sections 7.5.1 and 7.5.2 of this Code.
Records should be maintained of examination of raw materials, packaging materials and finished products, and of suppliers' guarantees or certifications that verify compliance with the requirements of this Code.
Where specified in the scheduled process it is important to also record containers headspace and critical factors such as in-going product consistency and/or viscosity, maximum drained weight, minimum net weight and percent solid (Sub-Section 7.5.4).
where specified in the scheduled process it is important to record container headspace and critical factors such as in-going product consistency, maximum drained weight, minimum net weight and percent solids (Sub -Section 7.5.4).
Detailed automatic and manual record requirements depend on the type of aseptic processing and packaging system, but they must provide complete and accurate documentation of the pre-sterilization and running conditions actually used.
Processing and production records showing adherence to scheduled processes, including records of pH measurements and other critical factors intended to ensure a safe product, should be maintained and should contain sufficient additional information such as product code, date, container size and product, to permit a public health hazard evaluation of the processes applied to each code lot, batch or other portion of production.
Running condition records should include product temperature at the final heater outlet, product temperature at holding section outlet, differential pressures if a product-to-product regenerator is used, and the product flow rate.
The records, including the recorder thermometer chart, should be signed or initialled by the person conducting the review.
Records should be signed or initialled by the container closure inspector and should be reviewed by a representative of plant management, who is competent, with sufficient frequency to ensure that the records are complete and that the operation has been properly controlled.
Records should be kept of tests showing that effective treatment was maintained or tha t the microbiological quality was suitable.
Records should be maintained identifying initial distribution of the finished product to facilitate, if necessary, the segregation of specific food lots that may have been contaminated or otherwise unfit for their intended use.
Such departures should be recorded and made the subject of a separate file, or a log identifying the appropriate data and delineating them, the action taken to rectify them, and the disposition of the portion of the product involved.
10.4 Laboratories checking for pathogenic microorganisms should be well separated from food processing areas.
11.4 The products should comply with the requirements set forth by the Codex Alimentarius Commission on pesticide residues and food additives as contained in permitted lists or Codex Commodity Standards, and should comply with the requirements on pesticide residues and food additives of the country in which the product will be sold.
When two or more clocks are used in a processing room they should be synchronized.
The chart timing device should also be accurate.
Otherwise, the portion of the food involved shall be suitably disposed of under adequate and proper supervision to assure the protection of the public health.
Copies of all records provided for in Sub-Sections 8.2, 8.3 and 8.4 above should be retained at the processing plant or other reasonably accessible location for a period of three years.
The electrodes should then be thoroughly rinsed with water and blotted with soft tissue before proceeding with the standardization.
To obtain accurate results, the same temperature should be used for the
This operation should produce a deflection greater than  B1 1.5 pH unit from centre scale.
Adjust the temperature of the prepared paste to 25 oC and
This should be done at the beginning and end of each series of product determination or not less than twice daily.
The procedure for preparing of standardizing the sodium hydroxide solution is described in ibid, sections 50.032-50.035.
The pH is determined by the colour of the indicator when exposed to the sample under tests.
More accurate colorimetric tests can be made using a comparator block fitted with sets of tubes of standard indicator solutions of known pH. Indicators should be verified regularly, at least once per day before use, against the standard buffer solution.
Adjust the temperature of the liquid to 25 oC and determine the pH by immersing the electrodes in the liquid;
Adjust the temperature of the prepared paste to 25oC and determine its pH;
Alternately, blend the entire contents of the container to a uniform paste, adjust the temperature of the paste to 25oC and determine the equilibrated pH.
Use at least one medium for each series of solid and liquid media incubated aerobically and anaerobically.
3. Guidance for the monitoring of the critical control points including maintenance of adequate records.
1. Where, when and how was sample obtained 2. Sample size - number of containers 3. Total number of containers at the sample site 4. Number of containers having defects in the sample 5. List defects for each container 6. Describe conditions of storage and transportation 7. Sample identification (laboratory number assigned)
A complete record of any product removed from the site in which the quantities, manner of removal and place of subsequent storage are detailed should be made and retained.
Therefore, the general principles outlined in the "Guidelines for the Salvage of Canned Foods Exposed to Adverse Conditions" apply and in some cases may be used for lots in which spoilage has been identified.
Before a salvaged canned food is released for sale or distribution in its original container, each container shall be permanently marked with a legible, visible and specific code to permit its subsequent identification as a salvaged product.
Anyone not experienced in spoilage diagnosis should use these guidelines and identified references only in consultation with canned food laboratory experts.
The label, after removal in one piece and inspection of both sides, should be identified with the same reference as the container and be retained.
During examination of the container an attempt should be made to establish whether the defects are the result of damage caused by mishandling during shipment or is a result of damage within the processing
Since thermophiles may die during such incubation period, it is desirable to examine containers periodically for the evidence of gas production before the end of incubation.
If the can to be used for gas analysis is also to be used for cultural analysis, precautions should be taken to prevent external contamination.
Appendix 2 and standard texts, e.g., Speck (1984), C.F.P.R.A. Technical Manual No. 18 (1987) and Buckle (1985) should also be consulted.
Transfer all samplings to a sterile container and store as described above.
Each solid media plate should be streaked with at least one loopful (approximately 0.01 ml) of the sample of the container contents.
For such products both core and surface samplings should be taken.
Record observations giving a pproximate numbers of each morphological type observed in each field.
Where possible, the results of the sensory evaluation should be compared to the same evaluation of the contents from apparently normal cans from the same or neighbouring code lots or batches.
The empty container and any parts should be clearly identified and retained as long as there is any chance that it may be required for further examination or evidence.
For these reasons, results from seam tear-down as part of spoilage investigation must be considered only in context with all other spoilage investigation efforts and require expert interpretation.
It is preferable that all media used should be buffered to a pH value between 4.2 and 4.5.
Dried oregano shall have a characteristic colour varying from pale greyish yellow green to dark green.
When dried oregano is treated as unclassified/ungraded, the chemical and physical characteristics of class/grade II apply as the minimum requirements.
Whole, crushed/rubbed and ground/powdered oregano shall comply with the physical requirements specified in Table 2.
Period of curing at least 6 months.
If pasteurized the milk is heated to not less than 72 °C (161 °F) for 15 seconds.
To provide guidance on technical and nutritional aspects of the production of RUTF for children from the age of 6 to 59 months with SAM, including:
Any formulation of RUTF shall comply with Section 3 of the Standard for the Labelling of and Claims for Foods for Special Medical Purposes (CXS 180-1991) including the specification that their use should have been demonstrated, by scientific evidence, to be safe and beneficial in meeting the nutritional requirements of the persons for whom they are intended.
These foods should be soft or crushable and should be easy for children to eat without any prior preparation.
Relevant codes of practice include the Code of Hygienic Practice for Milk and Milk Products (CXC 57-2004) and the Code of Hygienic Practices for Low-Moisture Foods (CXC 75-2015).
The amount of vitamins and minerals added to achieve the target level must be adjusted based on the chemical form, interaction, and impaired absorption with other nutrients and non-nutrients and scientific evidence showing adequate stability and bioavailability in the finished product.
Section 4.1 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995),1 referring to the conditions applying to carry-over of food additives from ingredients and raw materials into foods, shall apply.
Lipids should provide 45 percent to 60 percent of the total energy.
RUTF should comply with the minimum and maximum or guidance upper levels in the annex.
It is recommended that methods of analysis and sampling of RUTF be in accordance with the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999).
