To enhance public confidence in the agreement while respecting legitimate concerns to retain confidentiality, the relevant competent authorities of the particular countries should provide the public – including consumers, industry, and other interested parties – an opportunity to comment at an appropriate time on the proposed content of the agreement.
After the agreement comes into effect, each party should promptly notify the other party or parties of any proposed new or revised measures that pertain to the agreement.
Description of the types of information that should be exchanged on a routine basis, including but not limited to revised laws and standards, analytical findings, and inspection results.
A description of the situations and procedures that should be followed when reporting significant changes in factors affecting the safety of traded products; situations where there is an identified risk of serious health effects related to traded products; and steps being taken to resolve such situations.
They undergo operations such as sorting, trimming, washing, peeling, cutting, and otherwise treated to remove any blemishes, bruises, toppings, tailings, cores, pits (stone) etc.; b) packed with optional ingredients as indicated in Section 3.1.2; and c) processed in an appropriate manner, before or after being hermetically sealed in a container or flexible container, so as to prevent spoilage and to ensure product stability in normal storage conditions at ambient temperature.
Mango chutney shall have normal colour, flavour and odour of mango chutney corresponding to the type of fruits and added optional ingredients used and shall possess texture characteristic of the product.
The pH shall not exceed 4.6.
The product shall also be reasonably free from discolouration due to oxidation, objectionable, and metallic or off-flavour or foreign odour and fibrous matter.
The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Food (CXG 21-1997).
b) Flexible containers should be filled as full as commercially practicable .
a) mango chutney or other names in accordance with the composition; or b) other names usually employed in the country; and c) if an added ingredient, as defined in Section 3.1.2 alters the flavour characteristic of the product, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the term “flavoured with X” or “X flavoured” as appropriate.
Product labelling, consumer education programs an d staff training at hospitals should be updated as appropriate to provide adequate information to caregivers on the safe use of the product and to provide caution regarding the health hazards of inappropriate preparation and handling of PF.
Products should meet the nutritional specifications of the applicable Codex standards1,2.
6 Hospitals and institutions should establish hygienically designed rooms designated for preparation of formulae and good hygienic practices (e .g. HACCP, labelling of prepared food, hygiene and cleaning instructions, temperature control, first in first out, etc.), and should provide effective training to their caregivers of infants.
Where applicable, this document should be used in combination with the International Code of Marketing of Breast Milk Substitutes, relevant WHA resolutions and the WHO Global Strategy for Infant and Young Child Feeding.
Refer to the Recommended International Code of Practice – General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969).
It is therefore important to isolate these construction areas and to reinforce cleaning procedures as well as environmental monitoring as described in Annex III.
In addition: Equipment should be designed, placed, installed and maintained in a manner that facilitates effective cleaning and disinfection, thus avoiding the occurrence of sites wher e accumulation of residues can take place. If water is available, such residues may lead to microbial growth, thus increasing the risk of contamination.
Condensation should be prevented in high hygiene areas.
It is also important to avoid any conditions which may lead to the occurrence of condensation, including on the internal surfaces of equipment.
Where wet cleaning procedures are applied, appropriate management options should be implemented such as operating procedures that would ensure a well-controlled cleaning and the rapid elimination of any water residues immediately thereafter.
Filters should be replaced or cleaned and disinfected regularly in a manner that does not contaminate the processing environment.
When milk and milk products are used in the manufacturing process, these should meet the requirements of the Code of Hygienic Practice for Milk and Milk Products (CXC 57-2004).
In manufacturing operations where heat treatments are critical control points (CCPs) for the reduction or elimination of a pathogen, appropriate records of the processing time and temperature should be maintained.
These heat-treatments are considered as CCPs and therefore procedures must be in place to detect deviations, such as temperature drops and insufficient treatment times, and to take appropriate corrective measures such as the redirection of the product to waste or reprocessing.
The drying step needs to be done under strict hygienic conditions to avoid microbial contamination of the final product.
Refer to Section 5.3 of the Recommended International Code of Practice – General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), Incoming Material Requirements.
Refer to Section 4.4.8 of the Recommended International Code of Practice – General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), Storage.
When monitoring of control measures and surveillance or verification results demonstrates deviations, appropriate corrective action should be taken and the finished product should not be released until adequate investigation has shown that it complies with appropriate specifications.
Documentation should be sufficient to facilitate product traceability in the event that a recall may prove necessary.
In addition: As PF is regularly traded internationally, the Principles and Guidelines for the Exchange of Information in Food Safety Emergency Situations (CXG 19-1995), the Principles and Guidelines for the Exchange of Information between Countries on Rejection of Imported Food (CXG 25-1997), Principles for Traceability/Product Tracing as a Tool Within a Food Inspection and Certification System (CXG 60-2006) and International Health Regulation (WHA, 2005) should be used in the event of a product recall.
In particular, it is important to ensure that cleaning and disinfection solutions are appropriate for their intended use and are of the proper concentration, that
To this effect, (i) the feeding period 18 should be minimized and should not exceed two hours, (ii) leftover formula should be discarded, and (iii) any formula prepared for later use should be refrigerated immediately following reconstitution and used within 24 hours. Various other risk reduction strategies for the preparation, storage and handling are provided in the guidelines of the FAO/WHO on the safe preparation, storage and handling of powdered infant formula (2007)10 .
For infants at greatest risk, when feasible, commercially available sterilized liquid products or other equivalent infant feeding options which have undergone an effective point of use decontamination procedure should be used instead of PF.
The label should also include information that can enable consumers to easily identify products in the event of a recall.
Guidance on microbiological monitoring in powdered formula preparation units in health care settings is provided in Annex III and should be followed as appropriate.
In addition: The FAO/WHO Guidelines for the Safe Preparation, Storage and Handling of Powdered Infant Formula (2007)10 should be used as a reference for training.
The typical action to be taken when there is a failure to meet the above criteria would be to (1) prevent the affected lot from being released for human consumption and (2) recall the product if it has been released for human consumption, and (3) determine and correct the root cause of the failure.
The typical action to be taken when there is a failure to meet the above criterion would be to (1) prevent the affected lot from being released for human consumption; (2) recall the product if it has been released for human consumption and (3) determine and correct the root cause of the failure.
There should be increased emphasis on the education of caregivers and healthcare professionals as to the appropriate uses of follow-up formulae, in addition to the training and education on the safe preparation, handling and storage (as recommended in Section IX of this Code of Practice) and effective labelling with respect to the intended consumer.
In order to design an appropriate monitoring program, it is important to understand the ecology of Salmonella and E. sakazakii (Cronobacter species) as well as the ecology of EB (used as indicators of process hygiene).
The monitoring program should be designed to assess whether E. sakazakii(Cronobacter species) is increasing and whether the control measures are effective to prevent the growth of the organism.
It should also allow one to assess whether, in case of entry, establishment in harbourage sites and spread throughout the area could be prevented or has taken place.
The frequency also needs to be increased in situations where an increased risk of contamination can be expected, e.g., in case of maintenance or construction activities or following wet cleaning activities.
The manufacturer should address each positive result of Salmonella and evaluate changes in the trends of E. sakazakii(Cronobacter species) and EB counts; the type of action will depend upon the likelihood of contaminating the product with Salmonella and E. sakazakii(Cronobacter species).
This could range from no action (no risk of contaminatio n), to intensified cleaning, to source tracing, to the review of hygienic practices. It is also important to review the monitoring program on a regular basis to take into account changes in the set-up, trends, etc.
These products are included in the Standard for Live and Raw Bivalve Molluscs (CODEX STAN 292-2008).
The adductor muscle is presented whole.
“Quick frozen Scallop Meat”, or “Quick Frozen Roe-on Scallop Meat”, with added water and/or solutions of water and phosphates contain the products defined in 2.1.1. and 2.1.2, and a solution of water and/or phosphates and optionally salt.
These products shall be processed and packaged so as to minimize dehydration and oxidation.
The product is subjected to a freezing process carried out in appropriate equipment in such a way that the range of temperature of maximum crystallization is passed quickly, in accordance with the requirements of the Code of Practice for the Processing and Handling of Quick Frozen Foods (CAC/RCP 8-1976).
The product shall be prepared from sound and wholesome scallops which are of a quality suitable to be sold fresh for direct human consumption.
Water shall be of potable quality, phosphates shall be food grade, and salt shall comply with the Standard for Food Grade Salt (CODEX STAN 150-1985).
Products shall be examined by the methods given in section 8.
Water added as an ingredient to scallop products shall be declared in the list of ingredients and the percentage of scallop meat and/or the percentage of added water shall clearly appear on the label, in accordance with the law and custom in the country in which the product is sold.
Where the product has been glazed the declaration of net contents shall be exclusive of the glaze.
The label should include terms to indicate that the product shall be stored at 4°C or below for fresh products and at a temperature of -18°C or below for frozen product processed in accordance with subsection 2.2 of this Standard.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with procedures elaborated in section 8.3 through 8.7 and in the Annexes, and in accordance with the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CAC/GL 31-1999).
When declared on the label, the count of the scallop meat shall be determined by counting the numbers of whole scallop meat (not including pieces defined above) in the package or representative sample thereof and dividing the count of whole scallop meat by the adjusted de-glazed weight (actual deglazed weight subtract the weight of de-glazed pieces) to determine the count per unit weight.
In addition to either AOAC procedure, block frozen scallops shall be thawed inside waterproof bags to prevent contact with, and absorption of, the water used to thaw the product.
In addition, the average count per unit weight shall be within the declared count range; (iii) the average net weight of all sample units is not less than the declared weight, provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any individual container; and (iv) the essential composition and quality factors, food additives, contaminants, hygiene and handling and labelling requirements of sections 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 are met.
This standard applies to Camembert intended for direct consumption or for further processing in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this standard.
Carré de Camembert is a so ft surface ripened cheese with a square shape and which comply with all other criteria and requirements specified for Camembert.
When the product undergoes substantial transformation 2 in a second country, the country in which the transformation is performed shall be considered to be the country of origin for the purpose of labelling.
(c) In the case of Fragaria grandiflora L., the maximum diameter of each berry whether sized or unsized shall not be less than 15 mm.
The total soluble solids content of the liquid extracted from the thawed, comminuted sample shall be not more than 35 percent m/m nor less than 18 percent m/m expressed as sucrose, as determined by refractometer at 20  b0C.
Quick frozen strawberries shall be: (a) of good colour; (b) free from foreign flavour and odour; (c) intact, if whole, and not materially disintegrated; (d) intact, if halved, sliced or cut and not seriously affected by disintegrated fruit; (e) clean, practically free from sand and grit and free from other foreign material; (f) practically free from stalks, parts of stalks, calyces, leaves and other extraneous vegetable material; (g) sound, practically free from mould, insect bites and other blemishes; (h) normally developed; (i) of similar varietal characteristics in each package; and (j) when presented as free-flowing, practically free from berries adhering to one another (whole, halved, sliced or cut), which cannot be easily separated by hand without damage when in a frozen state; not icy.
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985),3 the following specific provisions apply:
(b) When dry sugar has been added to whole berries after freezing, the dry sugar shall be washed off with water before draining.
Packaging used for quick frozen strawberries must:
The words "quick frozen" shall also appear on the label, except that the term "frozen"i may be applied in countries where this term is customarily used for describing the product processed in accordance with subsection 2.2 of the standard.
If a term designating the size of the strawberries is used: (a) it shall be supported by a correct graphic representation on the label of the size range to which the strawberries predominantly conform; and/or (b) by a statement of the predominant range of the maximum diameter of the strawberries in millimetres, or fractions of an inch in those countries where the English system is in general use: and/or (c) it shall conform to the customary method of declaring size in the country in which the product is sold.
Information for keeping and thawing of the product shall be given on retail packs.
In the case of quick frozen strawberries in bulk the information required above must either be placed on the container or be given in accompanying documents, except that the name of the food accompanied by the words "quick frozen" (the term "frozen" may be used in accordance with subsection 6.1.1 of this standard) and the name and address of the manufacturer or packer must appear on the container.
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).
protect the organoleptic and quality characteristics of the product; protect the product from bacteriological and other contamination (including contamination from the packaging material itself); protect the product from moisture loss, dehydration and, where appropriate, leakage as far as technologically practicable; and not pass on to the product any odour, taste, colour or other foreign characteristics.
(b) the packing medium: "with (name of the sweetener and whether as such or as the syrup)".
The building and surrounding area should be such as can be kept reasonably free of objectionable odours, smoke, dust, or other contaminations; should be of sufficient size for the purpose intended without crowding of equipment or personnel; should be of sound construction and kept in good repair; should be of such construction as to protect against the entrance and harbouring of insects or birds or vermin; and should be so designed as to permit easy and adequate cleaning.
(3) Equipment and Utensils. Equipment and utensils used for inedible or contaminating materials should be so identified and should not be used for handling edible products.
Only clean, sound materials should be used in further processing.
Water used for washing, rinsing, or conveying final food products should be of potable quality.
Plant management should advise personnel that any person afflicted with infected Preparatory operations leading to the finished product and the packaging operations should be so timed as to permit expeditious handling of consecutive units in production under conditions which would prevent contamination, deterioration, spoilage, or the development of infectious or toxigenic microorganisms.
High humidities which are conducive to proliferation of mould and development of mycotoxins should be avoided.
Special equipment should be used if the nature of the product or distances involved so indicate.
Packaging materials should be stored in a clean and sanitary manner and should not transmit to the product objectionable substances beyond limits acceptable to the official agency having jurisdiction and should provide appropriate protection from contamination.
The products should comply with the provisions for food additives and contaminants laid down in Codex commodity standards and with maximum levels for pesticide residues recommended by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The finished product should be stored and transported under such conditions as will preclude contamination with or development of pathogenic or toxigenic microorganisms and protect against deterioration of the product or of the container.
Formula foods for weight control shall be prepared from protein constituents of animals and/or plants which have been proved suitable for human consumption and from other suitable ingredients necessary to achieve the essential composition of the product as set out in Sections 3.1 and 3.2 above.
The total amount of protein shall not exceed 125 g per day.
Not more than 30 percent of the energy available from the food shall be derived from fat including not less than 3 percent of the energy available derived from linoleic acid (in the form of a glyceride).
The product shall be prepared with special care under good manufacturing practices, so that residues of those pesticides which may be required in the production, storage or processing of the raw materials or the finished food ingredient do not remain, or, if technically unavoidable, are reduced to the maximum extent possible.
The product shall be free from residues of hormones and antibiotics, as determined by means of agreed methods of analysis, and practically free from other contaminants, especially pharmacologically active substances.
To the extent possible in good manufacturing practice, the product shall be free from objectionable matter.
When tested by appropriate methods of sampling and examination, the product: (a) shall be free from pathogenic microorganisms; (b) shall not contain any substances originating from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; and (c) shall not contain any other poisonous or deleterious substances in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
When in liquid form, the product shall be thermally processed and packed in hermetically sealed containers to ensure sterility.
The name of the food shall be "Meal replacement for weight control".
The date of minimum durability shall be declared in accordance with Section 4.8 of the General Standard.
Any special conditions for the storage of the food shall be declared on the label if the validity of the date depends thereon.
2. The Code of hygienic practice for collecting, processing and marketing of natural mineral waters: • Identifies the necessary requirements that have to be fulfilled in order to ensure the distribution of natural mineral waters that are safe and suitable for human consumption. • Recommends an approach based on the principles of the Recommended International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene (abbreviated in this document as General Principles of Food Hygiene). • Recommends conducting a specific hazard analysis in the overall context of the application of principles such as HACCP to the production of natural mineral waters. • Provides guidance containing conditions specifically linked to natural mineral waters.
In addition, the following definitions also apply: Natural mineral waters - all waters meeting the definitions in Section 2 of the Codex Standard for Natural Mineral Waters (CODEX STAN 108 - 1981). Adequate - sufficient to accomplish the intended purpose of this Code. Aquifer - a saturated geological unit below the surface that yields water in sufficient quantities under normal hydraulic conditions. Watershed - the surface area upstream of the ground water resource within which precipitations can either directly or indirectly enter the ground water system and which can contribute to recharge the aquifer.
9. Refer to Section III of the General Principles of Food Hygiene.
10. Any spring, well or drilling intended for the collection of natural mineral waters should be approved by the official authority having jurisdiction.
11. As far as it is methodologically possible in each case, a precise analysis should be carried out on the origin of natural mineral waters, the period of their residence in the ground before being collected and their chemical and physical qualities.
Hydro-geological studies should include:  Location of the extraction points  Determination of the extent and properties of the aquifer containing the ground water resource  Location and extent of the watershed  Degree and nature of natural protection against contamination  Surface water features, identifying those interacting with the ground water resource
Different levels of protection are required depending on proximity to the water source and potential risks.
It should also be managed in a hygienic manner to prevent any natural or manmade contamination.
27. Should there be a failure to meet the limits of the established criteria, the necessary corrective measures are immediately to be taken and recorded.
From the hygiene standpoint, servicing of the handling and storage installations should meet the same standards as those required for the packaging or treatment.
Air filters should have a pore size of 0.45 µm or less.
Any piping or reservoir used in the processing of natural mineral waters from its source to the packaging facilities, the latter included, should comply with the necessary requirements set by the official authority having jurisdiction and be made of inert material approved for food contact such as ceramic and stainless steel that prevents any deterioration, be it by water, handling, servicing or disinfection.
The use of hot glues and ink jet equipment may result in change in taste and odour if used inside filling rooms, and this is why labelling machines inside filling rooms should have effective exhaust systems.
However, care should be taken to avoid lubricants from coming into contact with natural mineral water.
Steam used on surfaces in direct contact with natural mineral waters should contain no substances which may be hazardous to health or may contaminate the natural mineral water.
Rejected containers waiting disfigurement, destruction or authorized collection should be stored securely.
44. Refer to General Principles of Food Hygiene.
53. Refer to Section V of the General Principles of Food Hygiene.
46. Refer to General Principles of Food Hygiene.
47. Refer to General Principles of Food Hygiene.
48. Refer to General Principles of Food Hygiene.
49. Refer to General Principles of Food Hygiene.
These facilities should be designed to prevent access to waste or inedible material by pests and to avoid contamination of natural mineral water, potable water, equipment, buildings or roadways on the premises.
54. Refer to the General Principles of Food Hygiene.
This should provide the basis for determining the appropriate combination of control measures to reduce, eliminate or prevent, as necessary, these hazards to the production of safe natural mineral waters.
Microbiological monitoring of natural mineral waters should meet the specifications of the Table in Annex I of this document and should be performed at a frequency that enables the appropriate hygienic management.
Dedicated optical device should be installed to monitor the neck finish of glass bottles as well as the
Air entering the headspace of tanks should be filtered or treated to prevent contamination of product water.
Therefore, approved treatments, which are part of the process, should be subjected to HACCP principles.
Conveyor covers should be so designed as to protect containers from above and laterally from dust and other airborne particles.
In such cases the air circulation systems should be designed in order to avoid cross-contamination from the fumes.
73. Consideration should be given to ensuring that no sensorial and microbiological contaminants arise from contact of CO 2, either with the final product or with containers and closures used for the packaging of natural mineral water.
86. Refer to the General Principles of Food Hygiene.
97. Refer to Section X of the General Principles of Food Hygiene.
The instruments should be regularly maintained and cleaned out.
90. Refer to the General Principles of Food Hygiene.
91. Refer to the General Principles of Food Hygiene.
92. Refer to Section VII of the General Principles of Food Hygiene.
96. Refer to Section IX of the General Principles of Food Hygiene and Section VI of the Codex Standard for Natural Mineral Waters (CODEX STAN 108-1981).
The typical action to be taken when there is a failure to meet the above criteria would be to (1) prevent the affected natural mineral water from being released for human consumption and (2) determine and correct the root cause of the failure and (3), as appropriate, review monitoring procedures and prerequisite programs.
The non-fermented soybean products should comply with the requirements listed in Table 1.
Any products in minimal package that fail to meet the quality requirements, set out in Section s 3.3 and 3.4 , shall be considered a “defective”.
The flavourings used in products covered by this standard shall comply with the Guidelines for the Use of Flavourings (CXG 66-2008).
Processing aid used in products covered by this standard s hall comply with the Guidelines on substances used as processing aids (CXG 75-2010).
This product should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Appli cation of Microbiological Criteria related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).
The weight of the products covered by the provisions of this Standard shall be indicated in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).
Waste from sanitary facilities should be hygienically disposed of in such a way as to eliminate contact of potentially infectious faeces with animals or pasture land.
Prior to selecting the site for cultivation it should be determined if adequate control measures can be implemented to manage any identified risks.
In this case, controls that reduce the parasite hazard to an acceptable level during primary production are especially important.
Specific processing steps and processing combinations (hurdle concept) to control parasites should be used in accordance with guidance from competent authorities, where available.
The layout should minimize the introduction of soil that may contain faeces from animals and parasite stages from the outside environment (e.g. changing boots/clothes at the entrance of the establishment).
Such treatments should be done in accordance with validated parameter s, as described in relevant and reliable guidelines and other scientific literature.
transport parasite stages from faeces to food and should be controlled.
For control of parasites in cold smoked fish, smoke -flavoured fish, and smoke -dried fish refer to Annex 1 of the Standard for Smoked Fish, Smoke-flavoured Fish and Smoke-dried Fish (CODEX STAN 311-2013).
When a combination of treatments is used, it should be subject to rigorous validation to ensure consumer protection.
Refer to the General Standard for Irradiated Foods (CODEX STAN 106-1983).
Particular attention should be paid to abattoir workers who may be performing post -mortem inspection procedures and food handlers of ready-to-eat foods.
The need to comply with good animal husbandry practices and the importance of compliance with such practices, including: the role of domestic and wild animals in the transmission of certain parasites; the importance of on -farm sanitation and hygiene in interrupting the life cycle of parasites and minimizing the opportunity for faecal-oral transmission; and the importance of animal feed management to avoid domestic and wild life parasite contamination.
However, even with the beneficial use of labels instructing consumers to cook the product, a parasite hazard should be reduced to an acceptable level before marketing products that are likely to be consumed raw or undercooked.
When people are diagnosed with an Anisakis spp. nematodes allergy, they should be advised to avoid eating marine fish.
Periodic retraining of existing personnel should be given as refresher and to maintain competence level of all personnel.
It covers all types and forms of raw, dried groundnuts (peanuts) in-shell and shelled.
Methods and procedures associated with harvesting and production should be hygienic and such as not to constitute a potential health hazard or result in contamination of the product.
High humidities which are conducive to proliferation of mould and elaboration of aflatoxins should be avoided in storage areas in order to maintain groundnuts at a safe moisture level (see sub-section 7.8.2).
In addition, bulk transport such as ship or rail car should be well ventilated with dry air to remove moisture resulting from respiration of the grounds nuts and to prevent moisture condensation as the vehicle moves from warm to cool regions or from day to night.
Buyers should encourage suppliers of farmer's stock groundnuts to follow good production practices as described herein.
The transport vehicle should be examined for cleanliness,
Groundnuts should be handled so as to avoid cracking or tearing of hulls which may permit damage to the kernels.
Removal of loose kernels and blows before shelling will improve the quality of the groundnuts as well as the sheller and plant performance.
Special care should be taken to avoid overloading size grading equipment.
Fumigation or spray methods and chemicals used should be approved by the official agency having jurisdiction.
These areas should be cleaned and sprayed and/or fumigated on a regular basis to prevent insect and rodent infestation.
Storage and surge hoppers should be cleaned and sprayed between runs.
Every piece of machinery whether open or enclosed should be cleaned of lodged material on a regular schedule.
The area immediately surrounding the plant should be kept clean of all debris that might attract insects, rodents or birds and subjected to an adequate pest control programme.
An ample supply of water, i n compliance with sub -section 7.3 of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), under adequate pressure and of suitable temperature should be available with adequate facilities for its storage, where necessary, and distribution, and with adequate protection against contamination.
These facilities should be constructed of corrosion-resistant materials, capable of being easily cleaned, and should be fitted with suitable means of supplying hot and cold water in sufficient quantities.
Light bulbs and fixtures suspended over food materials in any stage of production should be of a safety type and protected to prevent contamination of food in case of breakage.
These facilities should be designed to prevent access to waste or inedible material by pests and to avoid contamination of food, potable water, equipment and buildings or roadways on the premises.
Surfaces should be smooth and free from pits
Equipment and utensils used for inedible materials or waste should be so identified and should not be used for edible products.
After application, contaminated equipment and utensils should be thoroughly cleaned to remove residues prior to being used again.
should be leak-proof, constructed of metal or other suitable impervious material which should be easy to clean or disposable and able to be closed securely.
Any residues of these agents on a surface which may come in contact with food should be removed by thorough rinsing with water, in compliance with sub-section 7.3 of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969) referred to in sub-section 4.4.1.1, before the area or equipment is again used for handling food.
All cleaning personnel should be well-trained in cleaning techniques.
Extreme care should be taken to avoid contaminating food.
Instruction should included relevant parts of this Code.
The wearing of gloves does not exempt the operator from having thoroughly washed hands.
Visitors should observe the provisions recommended in Sub-Sections 5.9, 6.3, 6.4 and 6.7.
Responsibility for ensuring compliance by all personnel with all requirements of Sub-Sections 6.1 - 6.9 inclusive should be specifically allocated to competent supervisory personnel.
The acceptance of the official agency having jurisdiction should be required for any treatment process and for the use of re-circulated water in any food process.
Permanent, legible and dated records of pertinent processing and production details should be kept
Such control should provide for rejection of all nuts that are unfit for human consumption and monitoring of the quality of the finished products.
Standard methods should be used for sampling, analysis and other determinations to meet the following specifications:
The labeling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labeling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).
Where allowed in accordance with the General Principles for the Addition of Essential Nutrients to Food (CXG 9-1987), maximum and minimum levels for Vitamins A, D and other nutrients, where appropriate, should be laid down by national legislation in accordance with the needs of individual country including, where appropriate, the prohibition of the use of particular nutrients.
The vegetable oils/fat used in the manufacture of the products covered by this Standard shall comply with the Maximum Levels for contaminants and toxins specified for the oils/fats by the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995) and with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established for the oils/fats by the CAC.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) the following specific provisions apply:
When required by the country of retail sale, the common name of the vegetable from which the fat or oil is derived shall be included in the name of the food or as a separate statement.
The milk protein content shall be declared in a manner acceptable in the country of sale to the final consumer, either (i) as a percentage by mass or volume, or (ii) in grams per serving as quantified in the label provided that the number of servings is stated.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the Mexican limes must be: ­ whole; ­ sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; ­ clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; ­ practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; ­ practically free of damage caused by pests; ­ free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; ­ free of any foreign smell and/or taste; ­ firm; ­ free of damage caused by low temperatures.
The development and condition of the Mexican limes must be such as to enable them: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
must be representative of the entire contents.
The materials used inside the package must be new 1, clean, and of a quality such as to avoid causing any external or internal damage
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package should be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety.
­ Class; ­ Size (size code or minimum and maximum diameter in mm); ­ Net weight (optional).
The product should be presented as one of the following styles:
Acidity regulators, anticaking agents, antioxidants, colours, emulsifiers, flour treatment agents, humectants, preservatives, stabilizers used in accordance with Table 1 and Table 2 of the General standard for food additives (CXS 192-1995)1 in food category 06.4.3 (Pre -cooked pastas and noodles and like products) and only certain Table 3 acidity regulators, antioxidants, colours, emulsifiers, flavour enhancers, humectants, stabilizers, and thickeners as indicated in Table 3 of the General standard for food additives are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this standard.
The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General standard for contaminants and toxins in foods and feed (CXS 193-1995).2
The optional ingredients shall be ingredient(s) which are commonly used.
Shall be acceptable in term of appearance, texture, aroma, taste and colour.
The product shall be free from foreign matter.
The product covered by this standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General standard for the labelling of pre-packaged foods (CXS 1-1985).
Claim on “Halal” Instant Noodles shall follow the appropriate section of the General guidelines for use of the term “Halal” (CXG 24-1997).
Sampling shall follow the General guidelines on sampling (CXG 50-2004).
Through the monitoring steps, the competent authority collects data and generates the information necessary.
13. It is customized to the unique needs and structure of the NFCS, and uses information collected from within and outside the system to identify gaps, optimize operations, and promote continuous improvement.
14. It is open to consultation and review by relevant national stakeholders during multiple stages of the process, while respecting legal requirements to protect confidential information as appropriate.
Attention should be given to the quality and reliability of the data.
16. It is adaptive to changes to the NFCS and the environment in which it operates and accommodates revisions to both the outcomes sought, associated activities, and the indicators applied.
Upon completion of these steps, the competent authority will have clearly defined the specific outcomes that the NFCS is designed to achieve and developed a plan for monitoring progress towards achieving these outcomes.
The competent authority can ensure that all of the relevant outcomes have been identified by asking “What else is necessary?” to achieve the highest-level outcome.
Frequency of data collection Financial cost of data collection Challenges for data collection or limitations to interpreting the data.
47. Measurement influences behaviour, so it is important to choose indicators that will incentivize the actions that will lead to achieving the intended outcomes.
For each indicator, the PMP should include: - Explanation or definition of indicator - Source of data - Frequency of data collection - Methods for data collection - Methods for ensuring data quality - Methods for data analysis - Roles and responsibilities for data collection - Roles and responsibilities for data analysis - Roles and responsibilities for ensuring data quality - Baseline data - Targets.
Findings from monitoring and system review and subsequent changes to the NFCS should be communicated effectively and efficiently to ensure the clear exchange of information and engagement between all relevant stakeholders in the NFCS.
Ideally, the competent authority should develop a framework that fully reflects the causal or logical processes that contribute to achieving its highest-level outcome.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the tannias must be: whole; sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter, except permitted substances used to prolong their shelf life; practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; practically free of damage caused by pests; free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; free of any foreign smell and/or taste2; firm; practically free of mechanical damage and bruising; practically free of signs of sprouting.
Tannias are classified in three classes defined below:
The development and condition of the tannias must be such as to enable them: to withstand transport and handling; and to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
The defects must not, in any case, affect the flesh of the produce.
Tannias shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).
Dried or dehydrated chilli pepper and paprika is the product obtained from drying the fruits of Capsicum species of the family Solanaceae mentioned in Table 1, with or without seeds or stalks and processed in an appropriate manner.
Dried or dehydrated chilli pepper or/and paprika shall be as described in Section 2.
It is the product obtained from drying the fruits of Capsicum species of the family Solanaceae mentioned in Table 1, with or without seeds or stalks and processed in an appropriate manner.
The product shall be free from any adulteration.
8.1 The products covered by the provisions of this standard shall be labelled in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).7 In addition, the following specific provisions apply:
In accordance with the chemical and physical requirements in Annex I, whole or ground paprika and hot paprika may be classified into the following classes: a) extra class b) class I/grade I c) class II/grade II When dried or dehydrated paprika and hot paprika is traded as unclassified, the provisions for physical and chemical requirements applicable to class II/grade II shall apply as minimum requirements.
When sized, the method used should be indicated on the package.
8.2.1 The common name of the product shall be as described in Section 2.1.1. 8.2.2 The common name of the product shall include an indication of the style as described in Section 2.2. 8.2.3 Trade name, variety or cultivar may be listed on the label.
Emphasis should be placed on the fact that the planting, pre-harvest and post-harvest strategies for a particular nut crop depends on the climatic 1 Brazil Nuts Extractivism: this is the process of collection and primarily handling of Brazil nuts in the Amazon rainforest where Brazil nut trees grow in their natural environment.
These codes of practice indicate the measures that should be implemented.
Before planting, growers should consult with appropriate plant breeding authorities or tree nursery personnel to ascertain the availability of species that are resistant to various factors (e.g., frost, microbial and fungal dise ases) that can have an impact on the safety and quality of nuts produced in the orchard.
Trade Associations, as well as local and national authorities should take the lead in informing growers of the hazards associated with aflatoxin contaminat ion of tree nuts Personnel that will be involved in harvesting nuts should be trained in personal hygienic and sanitary practices that must be implemented in processing facilities throughout the harvesting season.
If the nuts cannot be transported immediately to a processing facility they should be temporarily stored in a way that will keep them dry and protected from rain, insects, rodents, birds and drainage of ground water.
Processors should establish good quality control, traceability/product tracing and safety procedures at every step in the processing sequence to avoid cross contamination of aflatoxins between various lots of nuts during processing.
For nut varieties that are traditionally preconditioned with moisture (steam or water of potable quality) to reduce kernel breakage during cracking, the moisture level of the kernels after cracking should be lowered immediately, to a level that will not support the growth of fungi by rapidly circulating dry air through the kernels.
The lots must be indelibly marked with an identification number that can be traced back to the accompanying documentation (identification number of the lot must correspond to the identification number mentioned on the accompanying documents).
The nuts should be delivered directly to the plant for hulling and drying within 24 hours of harvest to prevent shell staining.
Measures for the prevention and reduction of aflatoxin in Brazil nut are included as a separate appendix to this Code given the very specific conditions related to the Brazil nut collection and processing.
It is recommended that tree nut producers, processors and others involved in the tree nut industry review this example, the concepts of which should be applicable to all tree nuts.
Pods should be sorted to remove damaged ones and gathered in piles, if possible, in thin layers, for only a short period of time (preferably less than 5 days).
