7. Be the unit for dissemination of information of food standards and food laws to manufacturers, exporters and concerned organizations.
Sub-committees 1. considers and approves as national data or national comments on standards, MRLs 2. considers and proposes the way of acceptance of standards and the implementation in country 3. considers and approves work plan for development of food industry provides documents cooperate distributes, informs Office of National Codex Committee scrutinize and provide data - proceeds and submits through official channel - submits - is informed and or takes action Departments, Divisions Ministry involved National Codex Committee The Government
National Codex Committee Office of National Codex Committee takes action approves informs sends invitation and agenda when received proposes approves of delegation sends written comments for item as requested informs of participation attend the meeting and defend national comments reports orders Concerned Organizations informs prepares for expenditure and trip arrangements for representative(s)
– Ministry of Agriculture – Ministry of Industry – Experts who are interested in Codex works Codex Standards, Codes and important publications should be translated into local language and distributed to all interested persons, organizations and food manufacturers.
NCC should hold workshops and/or seminar in order to promote better understanding of food standards and food safety issues for food industry such as appropriate quality control in food processing, personal hygiene, good manufacturing practices, the need for proper packaging and labelling to ensure that the “Codex message” is brought to as wide a cross section of the community as possible
In case of lack of necessary data for consideration of some draft standards or Maximum Limits government should support some budget for running experiment or research project which should be conducted in collaboration with other local organizations both governmental and private sectors to obtain sufficient data.
Unavoidable impurities should not be present in the final food at levels that would pose an unacceptable risk to health.
Non-flavouring food ingredients should be:
To avoid potential conflicts in risk management decisions between Codex and its members, any risk management measures selected by Members should complement existing Codex risk management guidance and take into account relevant JECFA evaluations.
Methods of analysis should comply with the Principles for the Establishment of Codex Methods of Analysis (CAC Procedure Manual.).
Flavourings should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria for Foods (CAC/GL 21-1997).
Labelling of foods containing added flavourings should be in accordance with the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1-1985).
It is recommended that flavourings covered by the provisions of these guidelines be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the Recommended International Code of Practice 69), and other relevant Codex texts such as Codes of Hygienic Practice and Codes of Practice.
Furthermore it applies to quick frozen raw or cooked squat lobsters (red and yellow).
Quick frozen lobsters shall be processed and packaged so as to minimize dehydration and oxidation.
The product shall be prepared from sound lobsters which are of a quality fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
The Products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CAC/GL 21-1997).
Where the food has been glazed the declaration of net contents of the food shall be exclusive of the glaze.
The label shall include terms to indicate that the product shall be stored at a temperature of -18C or colder.
Information specified above shall be given either on the container or in accompanying documents, except that the name of the food, lot identification, and the name and address of the manufacturer or packer as well as storage instructions shall always appear on the container.
(ii) Sampling of lots for examination of net weight shall be carried out in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan meeting the criteria established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and using procedures elaborated in Sections 7.3 through 7.6, Annex A and the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CAC/GL 31 - 1999).
Subtract the mass of the sieve; the resultant figure shall be considered to be part of the net content of the package.
Conveyances for transporting the harvested crop or raw product from the production area, place of harvest or storage should be adequate for the purpose intended and should be of such material and construction as will permit thorough cleaning and so be so cleaned and maintained as not to constitute a source of contamination to the product.
Unfit products should be segregated during harvesting and production to the fullest extent practicable and should be disposed of in such a place and in such a manner that they cannot result in contamination of the food and water supplies or other crops.
Equipment used for drying should be so constructed and operated that the product cannot be adversely affected by the drying medium.
Dogs, cats and other domestic animals, shou ld be excluded from areas where food is processed or stored.
The building and surrounding area should be such as can be kept reasonably free of objectionable odours, smoke, dust, or other contaminants; should be of sufficient size for the purpose intended without crowding of equipment or personnel; should be of sound construction and kept in good repair; should be of such construction as to protect against the entrance or harbouring of insects or birds or vermin; and should be so designed as to permit easy and adequate cleaning. In areas experiencing high concentrations of air-borne pollutants, equipment should be used to remove pollutants from the air blown across or through the product.
They should be used only by or under the direct supervision of personnel with a thorough understanding of the hazards involved, including the possibility of contamination of the product.
Gloves used in food handling should be maintained in a sound, clean and sanitary condition; gloves should be made of an impermeable material except where their usage would be inappropriate or incompatible with the work involved.
Clothing including suitable headdress should be appropriate to the duties being performed and should be kept clean.
Hands should be washed as often as necessary to conform to hygienic operating practices.
All necessary precautions should be taken to prevent the contamination of the food product or ingredients with any foreign substance.
Adequate first-aid facilities should be provided to meet these contingencies so that there is no contamination of the food.
Water used for conveying raw materials into the plant should be from such a source or suitably treated as not to constitute a public health hazard and should be used only by permission of the official agency having jurisdiction.
Analytical procedures used should follow recognized or standard methods in order that the results may be readily interpreted.
C. The products should comply with the requirements set forth by the Codex Committees on Pesticide Residues and Food Additives as referenced in the commodity standards.
They should also meet the provisions for optional ingredients in the respective Codex standard for foods for infants and young children.
If a country proposes to add or delete a nutrient compound to/from a list, the country should provide information that addresses how the nutrient compound satisfies/does not satisfy the criteria in Section 2.1. FCC √ √ √ √ √ √
These products should also have the additional protection of an internal lacquer system.
Hence the canning industry worldwide and government regulators consider it both desirable and in accordance with good manufacturing practice that measures be adopted to minimise the levels of tin in canned foods, whilst continuing to allow for the functional use of plain tinplate cans.
It is interesting to note that this concept also works in reverse – some highly pigmented foods, such as acidified beetroot and berry fruits, must always be packed into fully lined cans because, apart from their aggressive behaviour towards tin, colour bleaching via tin dissolution can be a significant problem.
Good process control by the canners helps to minimize the presence of headspace oxygen and the presence of oxidizing agents like nitrates and sulfites which can accelerate tin dissolution.
The can maker should have sufficient expertise to ensure that the customer’s ordering requirements (i.e. passivation and tin coating mass) are appropriate for the end use and should notify the customer of any concerns.
The canned food manufacturer and his suppliers should again carry out any necessary testing and make sure that the raw materials are fit for purpose.
Procedures should be in place to ensure that cans are supplied to specification.
Line stops and delays between filler and closer should be avoided.
That knowledge should be used to set controls where necessary and to determine consistent supply.
For this reason it is preferable to use ink jet coding rather than embossing.
If possible, it is preferable to export stock from a more recent production date if high temperatures are likely to be encountered during shipping or at the final destination.
61. The retailer should maintain correct stock rotation to ensure that shelves are stocked with cans in production date sequence.
It should be transferred immediately to a clean plastic or glass container and stored in the refrigerator.
This document should be read in conjunction with the Principles and Guidelines for the Conduct of Microbiological Risk Management (CAC/GL 63-2007), the General Guidelines on Sampling (CAC/GL 50-2004) and the Principles and Guidelines for the Conduct of Microbiological Risk Assessment (CAC/GL 30-1999).
Periodic reviews of microbiological criteria should be conducted, as appropriate, in order to ensure that microbiological criteria continue to be relevant to the stated purpose under current conditions and practices.
v) Providing information to food business operators on microbiological levels, which should be achieved when applying best practices.
In addition, for a microbiological criterion targeting a foodborne pathogen, consideration should be given to: 6 The evidence of actual or potential risks to health; and 6 The population at risk and consumption habits.
Records should be maintained documenting all instances of non-conformance with the microbiological criterion, together with records of the corrective actions taken, both to manage food safety risks and to p revent further instances of non - conformance.
In addition, revision of microbiological criteria should be considered in response to revision of other MRM Metrics an d also in response to emerging issues or changes in the following, but not limited to: • Taxonomy, prevalence or distribution for selected microorganisms; • The incidence of disease including attribution to specific foods; • Traits of microorganisms (e.g. anti-microbial resistance, virulence); • The suitability of an indicator organism; • Available analytical methods/tests/appropriateness of test; • Food/ingredients/technology/process of food production; • Food safety control system; • Population(s) at risk; • Consumer behaviour or dietary intake pattern of the food concerned; • Understanding/knowledge of risk;
In addition, the relevant sections of the OIE Performance of Veterinary Service Tool for Evaluation of Veterinary Services, Chapter 3.2 of the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code should be considered where appropriate.
This annex should also apply to any other visit or request for information that may be part of an assessment which has the ability to impact on the exporting country.
The use of a HACCP approach by food businesses should be recognized by governments as a fundamental tool for improving the safety of foodstuffs.
It should take all necessary steps to insure the integrity, impartiality and independence of official inspection systems and officially recognized inspection systems and to ensure that the inspection programme contained in national legislation is delivered to a prescribed standard.
Every effort should be made to apply risk analysis based on internationally-accepted methodology, where available.
When establishing the rationale, objective, scope, frequency of assessment and assessment tools, the importing country’s competent authority should take into account the established level of experience, knowledge and confidence together with the history of previous assessments, the period since the last assessment and any other relevant factors.
Where an imported product is found not to be in conformity, the resulting measures should take into account the following criteria to ensure that any action is proportionate to the degree of public health risk, potential fraud or deception of consumers:
It is the responsibility of the competent authority of the exporting country to communicate with the responsible parties of the site(s) to be assessed.
In the case of an assessment involving a visit an opening or entry meeting should be held.
Inspection systems’ laboratories should apply the principles of internationally accepted quality assurance techniques to ensure the reliability of analytical results.
They should have a status which ensures their impartiality and have no direct commercial interest in the products or establishments being inspected or certified.
Certification should provide assurance of the conformity of a product or batch of products, or that a food inspection system conforms to specified requirements, and will be based, as appropriate, on: – regular checks by the inspection service; – analytical results; – evaluation of quality assurance procedures linked to compliance with specified requirements; – any inspections specifically required for the issuance of a certificate.
Once an assessment report has been finalised the competent authorities of the importing and exporting countries should discuss and if possible agree if and how any
Where a certificate is signed on the basis of another supporting document, the person signing the certificate should be in possession of that document; – should have no direct commercial interest in the products being certified.
Procedures should be initiated to correct deficiencies and, as appropriate, enable withdrawal of official accreditation.
58. Consistent with the principles on transparency contained in the Principles for Food Import and Export Inspection and Certification, and in order to promote consumer confidence in the safety and quality of their food, governments should ensure that the operations of their inspection and certification systems are as transparent as possible, while respecting any legitimate constraints of professional and commercial confidentiality and avoiding the creation of new barriers to trade by giving a misleading impression of the quality or safety of imported products in comparison with domestic products.
should be clearly established and documented.
The anticipated costs for undertaking the assessment should be understood by both competent authorities in advance of undertaking the assessment.
Where competent authorities use other terms to describe assessment activities, e.g. visits, information exchanges, such activities should also be subject to these guidelines.
Processes and protocols for addressing assessment findings and recommendations should be documented and agreed prior to the assessment.
The assessment process should be planned, systematic, transparent, consistent, fully documented and well communicated.
The plan incorporating the rationale, objective, scope, assessment tools and requirements against which the exporting country’s official inspection and certification system is assessed, should be clearly identified by the importing country, notified to and agreed by the exporting country’s competent authority(s), within a reasonable period of time prior to the commencement of the assessment.
A systematic evaluation procedure for undertaking the assessment should be used based on a predetermined and structured program consistent with the purpose of the assessment.
c) The scope of the assessment, that is, whether the assessment is to cover a whole system or its sub-components, measures, technical requirements, or products should be defined.
In the case of a request for assessment from an exporting country, the importing country should respond in a timely manner providing a commitment to conduct the assessment.
Agreement should be reached in advance concerning the use of information sharing from assessments and the parties with whom information can be shared.
In the case of an assessment involving a visit a closing or exit meeting should be held. a) describe the objective, scope, and outcome; b) describe the criteria and assessment process; c) include assessment findings with supporting evidence for each conclusion, along with any details of significance discussed during the closing meeting; d) be made available as agreed to between the importing and exporting country’s competent authorities, including and addressing the comments made by the competent authority of the exporting country to enhance the accuracy of the report; e) take into account the timeframe for the finalisation of the report and response procedures agreed upon between importing and exporting countries’ competent authorities; f) include how corrective actions will be communicated and agreed to, including how follow-up verification will be completed; g) include any checklists of elements evaluated, where required to support the findings; h) include a summary of the assessment outcome; i) include outstanding matters and issues arising during the assessment in the report if there is no agreement on the conclusions and the corresponding corrective actions; j) include uncertainties and/or any obstacles encountered that could affect the reliability of the assessment conclusion; k) indicate any areas not covered in the assessment process, though within the scope, and the reasons for such deviation from the agreed scope.
Agreed corrective actions, timeframes and follow -up verification procedures should be clearly established and documented.
The final assessment report should be accurate and transparent and may be published respecting confidentiality of information, where appropriate.
4 Section 5.3 Labelling of Non-Retail Containers The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).
The products covered by this Standard shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for these commodities.
Where the glucose syrup contains fructose above 5% it shall bear a description to reflect this.
The presence of starch and the maximum amount present shall be declared on the label or containers of powdered sugar or powdered dextrose.
Raw cane sugar shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
The products covered by this Standard shall comply with the maximum limits establ ished by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The test weight shall be the weight per ISO 7971-1986 expressed in kilograms per hectolitre as determined on a test portion of the original sample.
Wheat and durum wheat shall be free from abnormal flavours, odours, living insects and mites.
Maximum level Wheat 14.5% m/m Durum Wheat 14.5% m/m Lower moisture limits should be required for certain destinations in relation to the climate, duration of transport and storage.
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepac kaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the following specific provisions apply:
For checking the compliance with this standard , the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234 -1999) relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
The products covered by the provisions of this Standard shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Wheat and durum wheat shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity.
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “wheat” or “durum wheat” as applicable.
– shall be free from micro-organisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; – shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and – shall not contain any substance originating from micro-organisms, including fungi, in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
In those instances where more than one factor limit and/or method of analysis is given it is strongly recommended that users specify the appropriate limit and method of analysis.
Canned salmon is packed in hermetically sealed containers and shall have received a processing treatment sufficient to ensure commercial sterility.
The product shall be prepared from sound fish of the species in Section 2.1 and of a quality fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) the following specific provisions shall apply.
The name of the product shall be the designation appropriate to the species of the fish according to the law, custom or practice in the country in which the product is to be distributed.
The packing medium shall form part of the name of the food.
The presentation provided for in Section 2.3.2 shall be declared in close proximity to the common name.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with Section 7.3, Annex A and the Guidelines for the Sensory Evaluation of Fish and Shellfish in Laboratories (CXG 31-1999).
The definitions below apply to this Guideline:
In essence, therefore, the outcome of the safety assessment process is to define the product under consideration in such a way as to enable risk managers to determine whether any measures are needed and if so to make well-informed and appropriate decisions.
Paragraphs 30 and 31 of the Codex Plant Guideline apply.
The description of the donor organism(s) should include:
Paragraphs 27, 28 and 29 of the Codex Plant Guideline apply.
As appropriate, new scientific information relevant to the conclusions of the food safety assessment conducted in accordance with the Codex Plant Guideline by the authorizing Codex member should be made available.
It may be necessary to examine the inheritance of the DNA insert itself or the expression of the corresponding RNA if the phenotypic characteristics cannot be measured directly; D) to demonstrate whether the newly expressed trait(s) are expressed as expected in the appropriate tissues in a manner and at levels that are consistent with the associated regulatory sequences driving the expression of the corresponding gene; E) to indicate whether there is any evidence to suggest that one or several genes in the host plant has been affected by the transformation process; and F) to confirm the identity and expression pattern of any new fusion proteins.
In other cases, the use of appropriate conventional toxicology or other studies on the new substance may be necessary.
Appropriate oral toxicity studies may need to be carried out in cases where the protein present in the food is not similar to proteins that have previously been consumed safely in food, and taking into account its biological function in the plant where known.
Where altered residue or metabolite levels are identified in foods, consideration should be given to the potential impacts on human health using conventional procedures for establishing the safety of such metabolites (e.g. procedures for assessing the human safety of chemicals in foods).
For example, in the case of vegetable oil, information should be provided on the extraction process and any subsequent refining steps.
Conventional procedures for establishing the safety of such compounds (e.g., procedures for assessing the human safety of chemicals) should be applied.
Alternative transformation technologies that do not result in antibiotic resistance marker genes in foods should be used in the future development of recombinant-DNA plants, where such technologies are available and demonstrated to be safe.
These include: the availability of sera for screening purposes; documented type, severity and frequency of allergic reactions; structural characteristics and amino acid sequence; physicochemical and immunological properties (when available) of known allergenic proteins from that source.
These methods should be scientifically sound and may include targeted serum screening (i.e. the assessment of binding to IgE in sera of individuals with clinically validated allergic responses to broadly-related categories of foods); the development of international serum banks; use of animal models; and examination of newly expressed proteins for T-cell epitopes and structural motifs associated with allergens.
This assurance is particularly important in cases where a recombinant-DNA plant is processed differently from a donor plant, since conventional food processing techniques associated with the donor organisms may deactivate, degrade or eliminate toxicants.
The safety assessment should take into account the chemical nature and function of the newly expressed substance and identify the concentration of the substance in the edible parts of the recombinant-DNA plant, including variations and mean values.
An adequate number of plants should be sampled and the methods of analysis should be sufficiently sensitive and specific to detect variations in key toxicants and allergens.
The purpose of this comparison is to establish that substances that can affect the safety of the food have not been altered in a manner that would have an adverse impact on human health.
Paragraphs 41, 42 and 43 of the Codex Plant Guideline apply.
Conventional procedures for establishing the safety of such compounds (e.g. procedures for assessing the human safety of chemicals) should be applied.
Paragraphs 55, 56, 57 and 58 of the Codex Plant Guideline apply.
In order for Codex Members to use this Annex, it is essential that they have access to requisite data and information.
This information should be presented in accordance with the following format:
This process should facilitate rapid access by importing Codex Members to additional information relevant to the assessment of food safety assessment in situations of low-level presence of recombinant-DNA plant material in foods in accordance with this Annex.
The authorizing Codex Members should make available complementary information to other Codex Members on its safety assessment in accordance with the Codex Plant Guideline, in conformity with its regulatory/legal framework.
For refined olive-pomace oils values > 0.5 and ≤ 0.7% then stigmasterol ≤ 1.4% and ΔECN42 ≤ |0.4|. (d) Chromatographic peak composed by Δ5,23-stigmastadienol+clerosterol+β-sitosterol+sitostanol+Δ5-avenasterol+Δ5,24-stigmastadienol peaks.
After passage of the sample through activated alumina, absorbency at 270 nm shall be equal to or less than 0.11.
The products covered by the provisions of this standard shall comply with those maximum residue limits
The products shall be labelled in accordance with the General standard for the labelling of pre-packaged foods (CXS 1-1985).
The labelling of non -retail containers should be in accordance with the General standard for the labelling of non-retail containers of foods (CXS 346-2021).
The methods of sampling and analysis to be employed for the determination of the additional compositional and quality factors set out in Section 1 of this Annex are detailed below:
In the determination of diastase activity (2.2.2) and hydroxymethylfurfural content (2.2.3), samples are prepared without heating.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the following specific provisions apply:
The products covered by this Standard shall comply with those maximum levels for heavy metals established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The products covered by this standard shall comply with those maximum residue limits for honey established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The methods of sampling and analysis to be employed for the determination of the compositional and quality factors are detailed below:
Samples should be prepared in accordance with AOAC 920.180.
However, in the case of honey of declared origin from countries or regions with tropical ambient temperatures, and blends of these honeys, the HMF content shall not be more than 80 mg/kg.
NOTE: CCS asked CCMAS to consider retaining only those essential references.
The annexes also provide examples such as decision tree tools (DTTs) that can help to determine if water is fit for purpose.
The Guidelines for the safe use and reuse of water in food production and processing aim to:  provide guidance for food business operators (FBOs) and competent authorities on the application of a risk-based approach for the use and reuse of water that is fit for purpose; and  provide practical guidance and tools (e.g. DTTs) and risk-based microbiological criteria as examples to help FBOs evaluate risks and potential interventions of water as part of their food hygiene system.
These guidelines provide a framework of general principles and examples for applying a risk-based approach to determine if the water to be sourced, used, and reused by FBOs involved in production and processing of relevant commodities is fit for purpose by addressing microbiological hazards, such as parasites, bacteria, and viruses.
The document is intended for use by FBOs (primary producers, packing houses, manufacturers , processors) and competent authorities as appropriate.
Water used for primary production, including for frost protection and protection against sunscald, which has contact with the edible portion of fresh produce, should not compromise produce safety.
The development of a risk-based strategy for water sourcing, use and reuse should take into account: identification of water-related microbiological hazards and source of those hazards, relevant for the area of production; sources of water available; the description of the water supply system (e.g. delivery and storage system); uses of water considered such as irrigation, washing (fresh produce, containers and surfaces), storage on ice, etc.; type of irrigation, in particular, if the water is in direct contact with the produce; type of crop (e.g. leafy greens versus fruit trees); physiological characteristics of the fresh produce (such as the peel and whether the produce would be subject to infiltration of water in the produce); water treatment and water disinfection techniques available such as heating, microfiltration and treatment with chlorine, chlorine dioxide, chloramine, ozone, UV-C; application after use of water (e.g. irrigation cessation, washing, peeling); consumers’ habits such as eating raw, cooking, fermenting, etc.; and labelling with instructions for the intended use of the food.
Treatment or reconditioning of water intended for fit-for-purpose use and reuse should be based on hazard analysis of the sourced water and, where deemed necessary, treatments should ensure that hazards are eliminated, controlled, or reduced to an acceptable level.
Control measures to prevent water from becoming a source of microbiological contamination of the fresh produce, should be considered at all stages, and an overall management strategy should be developed, taking into account risk factors and control measures applicable at each step.
It provides examples and/or practical case studies for determining appropriate fit-for-purpose microbiological criteria, (i.e. criteria for bacteria, viruses, parasites), as well as examples of the DSS tools such as DTs to determine the water quality needed for the specific intended purpose in the fresh produce supply chain.
This annex is complementary to and should be used in conjunction with the main document, the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969),1 the Code of Hy gienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003),2 the Principles and Guidelines for the Conduct of Microbiological Risk Management (MRM) (CXG 63-2007),5 the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997),6, and the Principles and Guidelines for the Conduct of Microbiological Risk Assessment (CXG 30-1999).9
The efficacy of these treatments should be evaluated and monitored.
Water testing records should be kept.
Where possible, growers should have a contingency plan in place that identifies an alternative source of water.
It is especially critical in hydroponic operations to maintain the water quality to reduce the risk of contamination and survival/growth of pathogens.
The following should be undertaken regarding water for indoor storage and distribution facilities: • avoid contaminating water supplies by exposure to agricultural inputs that may contain microbial hazards; • clean and disinfect water storage facilities on a regular basis; and • control the quality of the water supply.
Post-harvest operations/systems that use water should be designed in such a manner as to minimize places where the product may lodge, or cause dirt buildup.
If treating water for use in washing and rinsing, it is recommended to seek professional advice from experts on the safe (re-)use of water in fresh produce before purchasing, installing, and using any water treatment system, e.g. water chlorination system.
Maximum run time, between cleaning and sanitation cycles, should be determined for each process line.
Specific tests should be performed if the presence of these parasites is suspected.
The Code applies to the places where these are prepared, to the points of sale and to the means of transport used.
Other relevant definitions are as follows:
Only purchase food products in quantities that correspond to adequate storage/preservation capacity.
Keep the food protected from contamination by pests (insects, rodents) and other biological agents.
Purchase inputs and ingredients from authorized retailers or approved sources, under adequate storage conditions, with refrigeration/freezing when necessary (perishable items), stored on shelves, in boxes or baskets and protected from contamination.
Only purchase inputs and ingredients whose organoleptic properties are proper or correspond to the specific characteristics or nature of the fresh food or raw material and that do not show signs of any kind of alteration and/or adulteration.
Only purchase perishable inputs and ingredients maintained at adequate temperature.
For packaged products, follow the manufacturer's instructions on the label; and/or storage conditions complying with general principles of food hygiene and legal provisions in force.
The vehicle, containers and packaging used for transportation should be adequately cleaned and disinfected and should have sufficient internal space and the necessary equipment to ensure food safety and quality.
Inputs and ingredients must be received and kept in clean, protected places: meat, offal, fish and other perishable products should be placed on trays, under refrigeration and/or freezing, and bulk commodities in clean containers.
Shelves, boxes and storage space should be of non-contaminating material, clean and protected from dust and other contaminating agents.
Keep recipients containing foods clearly labelled and/or identified and in separate areas from non-edible products like soap, disinfectants, pesticides and other toxic or poisonous substances.
Rotate the stock of products on a first in, first out basis.
Respect rules of safety regarding electricity and toxic, explosive and inflammable substances in order to protect persons.
5.1.2.5 Equipment, utensils, water outlets, working surfaces and other components should meet the same requirements specified in 5.1.1.
5.1.3.3 Detergents and disinfectants used to clean and disinfect working surfaces, utensils, water outlets and other components should, as far as possible, be non-toxic and non-corrosive (Ad. I CXC 1-1969, Rev. 3-1997).
SELECT PLACE OF PURCHASE AND ORIGIN TO ENSURE HAZARD CONTROL.
If the prepared food is to be seasoned with uncooked ingredients, do not expose the food to excessive contact with these ingredients, in time or temperature, before consumption.
Mayonnaise, sauces with egg, mousse and similar dishes prepared with raw eggs should come from industrial establishments.
7.6 When the transportation time exceeds 2h, the food containers should be placed in thermal boxes.
In addition to the stated requirements, food handlers or vendors should be responsible for the hygiene and protection of the food they prepare or sell, and for all aspects related to its safety.
When this is not possible, the non-disposable serving items in good condition should be washed, cleaned and disinfected after each use.
When this is not possible, wash and disinfect hands before preparing food.
Used disposable items should be deposited into separate containers from those used for leftovers, and should also be appropriate and secure.
It should be disposed of in the public drainage system, and not thrown onto the ground and/or into surface waters such rivers and lakes.
Their final destination should be according to municipal regulations.
The procedure should avoid the contamination of food, food vendors/handlers, the public and the environment.
It shall be processed and packaged so as to minimize oxidation.
Fresh marine and freshwater fish, crustacean and molluscan shellfish shall be preserved immediately after harvesting by chilling or icing to bring its temperature down to 0°C (32°F) as quickly as possible as specified in the Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products (CXC 52-2003) and kept at an adequate temperature to prevent spoilage and bacterial growth prior to processing.
The marine and freshwater fish, crustacean and molluscan shellfish shall have a characteristic fresh appearance, colour and odour.
Other ingredients shall be of food grade quality and conform to all applicable Codex Standards.
The product shall comply with the requirements prescribed in Table 1.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the following specific provisions apply:
Sampling of lots for examination of the products shall be in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5.
The name of the product from marine and freshwater fish shall be "Fish Crackers" and those from crustacean and molluscan shellfish shall depict the common name of the species, like "Prawn Crackers" or "Squid Crackers".
The package shall bear clear directions for keeping the product from the time it is purchased from the retailer to the time of its use and directions for cooking.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with Annex A.
the Food Additives, Hygiene, and Labelling requirements of Section 4, 5 and 6 are met.
Note that land preparation needs to be done properly to control the weeds, at least for the first 3 months.
Where needed, ensure access to agrochemicals authorized for use.
Cassava cuttings that are free of fungi should be planted.
Farmers are encouraged to adopt GAPs.
Crops that are said to be of low susceptibility to toxigenic fungi should be used in rotation to reduce the cross contamination from inocula.
Excess precipitation during root maturation provides favourable condition for fungal infections, thus, sprinkle irrigation during anthesis and the maturation of the roots should be avoided.
As such, it is necessary that measures be taken to prevent or reduce damages to harvested cassava roots, especially for hard soils, to prevent fungal growth after damage.
Containers and conveyances (e.g. trucks) used for collecting and transporting the harvested roots from the field to processing and storage facilities, should prevent mechanical damage to cassava roots and be cleaned, sanitized, and dried.
Processing of cassava should be initiated within 8–12 hours of receiving cassava roots as a raw material to avoid spoilage.
Unhygienic practices at this stage could serve as potential sources of fungal inocul a. Therefore, the environment and all tools used should be kept clean in all steps of processing.
Proper washing is vital to ensure sand or mud is removed from all parts of the root, especially the contours.
Peeling should be carried out in a clean environment, and not where other crops have been stored, otherwise, it may serve as a source of contamination for the cassava.
If not used, immediately, adequate care should be taken to prevent fungal re-contamination.
Clean pans, bowls or sacks should be used in emptying the cakes.
Drying surfaces and materials should be clean.
The milling machine should be cleaned and dried after use.
The sieve to be used in further processing steps should be stored properly and cleaned with potable water and completely dried before use.
Frying of gari, among other fermented cassava products, should be done at high temperatures and monitored in order to discourage fungal proliferation.
Adequate cleaning and sterilization of the sacks should be done frequently.
The instructions for storage before (e.g. store in a cool, dry, well-ventilated area) and after the product is opened, should be legible and in clear language, in order to maintain product quality.
Avoid pest infestation during transport by the use of pest-proof containers.
This standard applies to canned bamboo shoots, complying with the characteristics of edible varieties from species of bamboo shoots, as indicated in, but not limited to, Section 2.2 below, and offered for direct consumption, including for catering purposes or for repacking or for further processing.
Canned bamboo shoots is the product: (a) prepared from edible bamboo shoots in packing media with or without fermentation ; (b) processed by heat, in an appropriate manner, before or after being hermetically sealed in a container, so as to prevent spoilage; (c) the pH value of the product shall be as follows: (i) natural fermented bamboo shoots product – pH lower than 4.0; (ii) acidified bamboo shoots product – pH 4.0 – 4.6; and (iii) non-fermented, non-acidified bamboo shoots product – pH higher than 4.6.
Canned bamboo shoots shall have normal colour, flavour and odour and shall possess a texture characteristic of the product.
6.2 The product should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).i,9
8.1.3 If an added ingredient, as defined in Section 3.1.2.2, alters the flavour characteristic of the product, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the term "flavoured with X" or "X flavoured" as appropriate.
The labelling of non -retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).11
For these products, any milk fat content must be no more than 3% of the total fat content.
The fat content shall be as follows: (a) Margarine ≥ 80% (b) Fat spreads < 80%
The fat content shall be as follows: (a) Blends ≥ 80% (b) Blended fat spread < 80%
The flavourings used in products covered by this standard should comply with the Guidelines for the Use of Flavourings (CXG 66-2008).
The product designations should be translated into other languages in a meaningful way and not strictly word by word.
It is recommended that the products covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), and other relevant Codex texts such as Codes of Hygienic Practice and Codes of Practice.
The name of the food to be declared on the label shall be as specified in Sections 3.1.1 and 3.1.2.
The product shall be labelled to indicate fat content in a manner found acceptable in the country of sale.
The milk fat content, when present shall be indicated in a manner that is clear and not misleading to the consumer.
The product should be labelled to indicate salt content in a manner found acceptable in the country of retail sale.
In this regard, the nature of the food product intended for consumption should be taken into consideration in determining the types of processing which would be applied and its effects on the presence of the protein in the final food product.
In addition genetic instability and its consequences need to be considered.
To facilitate the safety assessment, the DNA to be inserted should be preferably limited to the sequences necessary to perform the intended functions.
The necessary data and information should include, but need not be restricted to: A) identity: scientific name, common name or other name(s) used to reference the microorganism, strain designation, information about the strain and its source, or accession numbers or other information from a recognized culture repository from which the organism or its antecedents may be obtained, if applicable, information supporting its taxonomical assignment; B) history of use and cultivation, known information about strain development (including isolation of mutations or antecedent strains used in strain construction); in particular, identifying traits that may adversely impact human health; C) information on the recipient microorganism’s genotype and phenotype relevant to its safety, including any known toxins, antibiotics, antibiotic resistance factors or other factors related to pathogenicity, or immunological impact, and information about the genetic stability of the microorganism; D) history of safe use in food production or safe consumption in food; and E) information on the relevant production parameters used to culture the recipient microorganism.
Such stock cultures should be made available to regulatory authorities upon request.
This should include an analysis of the potential for mobilization of any plasmids or other genetic elements used, the locations of the added, inserted, deleted, or otherwise modified genetic materials (site on a chromosomal or extra-chromosomal location); if located on a multi-copy plasmid, the copy number of the plasmid;
