• Caviar cans/jars should not be described or presented on any label in a manner that is false or misleading to consumers. • Labels should be monitored for accuracy by trained personnel.
• Containers of caviar should be periodically checked for loss of vacuum or can corrosion; any affected containers should be rejected. Refer to Sections 20.17 and 20.20.
• Handling should be done by trained personnel.
Ovaries should be cut into small pieces to improve the sieving process and reduce friction among eggs.
Technical guidance: • Prior to cutting, the belly area should be appropriately brushed and washed with potable or clean water to remove all foreign matter (e.g. sand, blood) and reduce microbial load.
Potential hazards: chemical contamination (e.g. use of texturizing agents), microbiological contamination, drug residue Potential defects: damage to the egg texture, off flavour and off odour, quality deterioration Technical guidance: Shell texturizing agents are not permitted in accordance with Section 4 of the Standard for Sturgeon Caviar (CXS 291-2010) Eggs should be treated with shell improving methods in such a manner as to avoid chemical or microbiological contamination or growth, damage to the eggs, modification of their flavour or odour, or deterioration in their quality.
Product should be stacked to allow proper air circulation.
Each commodity in a full-service display should have its own container and serving utensils to avoid cross-contamination.
The adductor muscle and roe are presented whole.
• Joints between floors and walls should be constructed for ease of cleaning (round joints).
Water supply lines should be fitted with back-flow devices, where appropriate.
Adequate lighting should be provided on all work surfaces.
• Equipment, containers and utensils coming into contact with fish, shellfish and their products should be designed to provide for adequate drainage and constructed to ensure that they can be adequately cleaned, disinfected and maintained to avoid contamination. • Equipment and utensils should be so designed and constructed as to minimize sharp inside corners, projections and tiny crevices or gaps so as to avoid dirt traps. • A suitable and adequate supply of cleaning utensils and cleaning agents, approved by the competent authority with pertinent jurisdiction, should be provided.
In each processing plant or vessel, a trained individual should be designated as responsible for the sanitation of the processing facility or vessel and the equipment therein.
For each item of equipment, these procedures should specify the methods used, the persons in charge of their application, and their frequency.
• Facilities for the containment of offal and waste material should be properly maintained. • Vessel waste discharge should not contaminate vessel water intake systems or incoming product.
Facilities and equipment should include: • Adequate means to hygienically wash and dry hands. • Adequate toilet and changing facilities for personnel should be suitably located and designated.
• All persons working in a facility should maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness and should take all necessary precautions to prevent contamination. • Hand washing should be carried out by all personnel working in a processing area: – at the start of fish or shellfish handling activities and upon re-entering a processing area; and – immediately after using the toilet.
• Ice should be protected from contamination.
• Steam used in direct contact with fish or shellfish or food contact surfaces should not constitute a threat to the safety or suitability of the food.
Floors should be adequately drained; • where appropriate with chilling equipment to maintain chilled fish or shellfish during transportation to a temperature as close as possible to 0 °C or, for frozen fish, shellfish and their products, to maintain a temperature of –18 °C or below (except for brine frozen fish intended for canning, which may be transported at –9 °C or colder); • so that live fish and shellfish are transported at temperatures tolerable for the species; • to provide the fish or shellfish with protection against contamination, exposure to extreme temperatures and the drying effects of the sun or wind; and • to permit the free flow of chilled air around the load when fitted with mechanical refrigeration means.
Decision: Processing Step No. 12 Heat processing is a critical control point.
Sampling frequency and the factors that may lead to it being changed should be described in a “marine biotoxin action plan” for the growing area.
• A systematic stock rotation plan should be developed and maintained.
• The thawing schedule should be reviewed as appropriate and amended where necessary.
• Separate and adequate storage facilities should be provided for the fish roe, milt and livers, if these are saved for later utilization.
An adequate supply of clean seawater or potable water should be available for washing of: – fish prior to filleting or cutting, especially fish that have been scaled; – fillets after filleting, skinning or trimming to remove any signs of blood, scales or viscera; – filleting equipment and utensils to minimize build-up of slime and blood and offal;
Potential hazards: unlikely Potential defects: incorrect net weight Technical guidance: Weigh scales should be periodically calibrated with a standard mass to ensure accuracy.
Standard for Quick Frozen Blocks of Fish Fillets, Minced Fish Flesh and Mixtures of Fillets and Minced Fish Flesh (CXS 165-1989) and General Standard for Quick Frozen Fish Fillets (CXS 190-1995).
An appropriate assessment should be carried out to determine the reason(s) for incorrect labelling and the DAP plan should be modified where necessary.
• Metal detectors, if used, should be periodically calibrated with a known standard to ensure proper operation.
• For killing parasites harmful to human health, the freezing temperature and monitoring of duration of freezing should be combined with good inventory control to ensure sufficient cold treatment.
• If additives are used in the water for glazing, care should be taken to ensure its proper proportion and application with product specifications.
Temperature monitoring should ensure undue temperature rises of the product are avoided.
• The resulting wastewater should be disposed of in a suitable manner.
• The minced fish product should be packaged and frozen immediately after preparation; if it is not frozen or used immediately after preparation, it should be chilled.
• Ingredients and packaging should be properly protected and segregated to prevent cross-contamination. • Defective ingredients and packaging should not be used.
Frozen fish should be maintained in the frozen state.
Care should be taken and hygienic practices should be maintained during gutting and gilling in order to minimize the spread of bacteria from the guts, gills, skin, and other contamination sources, into the muscle.
• If some of the fish on the vessel are determined – based on monitoring records – to be at risk for unacceptable histamine levels, then these fish should be segregated and identified in order to allow targeted testing and/or proper disposition at unloading.
A responsible person should examine, as a part of verification activity, the monitoring records before product release, to confirm that critical limits were maintained, and that appropriate corrective actions were taken when necessary.
• Fish cores that are touching one another going through the wet-coating step should be removed and placed back on the conveyor in order to obtain a uniform batter coat and a uniform breading pick-up. • Cored fish should be monitored for foreign material and other hazards and defects before coating. • Remove from production any broken, misshapen or out-of-specification pieces.
In industrial practice, the order and the number of coating steps may differ and, therefore, may deviate considerably from this scheme.
• To avoid microbiological contamination of the hydrated batter, appropriate means should be adopted to ensure that significant growth does not take place, such as temperature control, dumping liquid contents and regular or scheduled clean-ups and/or sanitation during the manufacturing shift.
Potential hazards: microbiological contamination Potential defects: insufficient coating or excessive coating Technical guidance: • Dry coating must cover the whole product and should stick well on the wet coating. • Surplus coating is removed by blowing away with clean air and/or by vibration of conveyors and must be removed in a clean and hygienic way if further use is intended.
• Care should be taken to ensure that the raw thawed product is not subjected to conditions that cause tearing and breakage of the product.
Technical guidance: • Controls should be instituted to ensure that immersion to remove ice glaze is not so long as to cause the individual molluscan shellfish to thaw. • Thaw immersion water should be replaced at sufficient intervals to ensure that the product is not subjected to dirt and other contaminants.
Refer to Section 12.3.6.
• The use of very coarse salt granule could result in damage to the fish flesh during salting and may reduce the rate of maturation. • Small crystals of salt should be used for dry-salting of fatty fish, and large crystals for lean fish. • Salt used as an ingredient needs to be of food grade.
The nobbed fish should be drained and well iced or appropriately chilled in clean containers and stored in specially designated and appropriate areas within the processing facility.
The gibbed fish should be drained and well iced or appropriately chilled in clean containers and stored in specially designated and appropriate areas within the processing facility.
In order to minimize such microbial contamination of salted fish, previously used and/or contaminated salt should be removed from the plant.
• To ensure proper salt penetration, fish should be of similar size.
• Conduct metal detection here or later in the process. • The reflux of injected brine into the reservoir should be avoided.
• When salting the fish, the salt concentration of the brine should be checked periodically with a salinometer according to specifications.
• Fish should not be exposed to freezing temperatures during the salting process.
• Brine should preferably not be reused and if it needs to be recycled, a treatment should be applied to minimize microbiological hazards, e.g. by filtration.
• Drying should be performed under conditions of controlled temperature, humidity and air flow where applicable.
• Wood containing mould or fungus may impart off-flavours and odours and should not be used.
Contamination during storage should be avoided.
• Cooling should be carried out in a dry area under controlled conditions to avoid partial rehydration and cross contamination, respectively.
Care should be taken to avoid any rehydration.
The potential for residues of sulphating agents leads to labelling requirements because these chemicals are common allergens.
Tails should be carefully separated and cleaned before freezing or cooling down to the temperature of melting ice, which should be done as rapidly as possible.
• Tailing should be carried out as rapidly as possible.
• Sulphites should be used in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions and good manufacturing practice.
Tails awaiting de-veining should be kept on ice or refrigerated at 4 °C or below.
• Weights of finished packages should be monitored at regular intervals to assure that they are the proper net weight.
• Chilling should take place as rapidly as possible to prevent microbiological growth and deterioration.
• Chilling of glaze water will result in a more uniform application of glaze that will better protect the product.
• Where sulphites were used in the process, care should be taken to ensure that this additive is properly declared on the label.
• Glaze is recommended as a further measure to ensure against dehydration.
• Labels should be examined for accuracy and to adherence to applicable regulations.
Potential hazards: biological, chemical and physical contamination Potential defects: contamination, mislabelling Technical guidance: • Additive shipments should be examined to ensure that they are not contaminated and that the container integrity is adequate. • It should be verified that additive shipments contain the correct chemicals and meet purchase specifications.
Technical guidance: • Food additives and packaging material should be protected from dust, dirt and other sources of contaminants. • Pests and insects should be excluded from the packaging storage area.
Pasteurized crabmeat may be treated with sodium acid pyrophosphate,
Sections should be carefully separated and cleaned before freezing or cooling down to the temperature as close as possible to 0 °C, which should be done as rapidly as possible.
• Claws, leg tips and shell parts containing recoverable meat should be continuously separated, rapidly and efficiently, from waste material during the picking operation and should be kept chilled and protected from contamination.
• Do not overload brine tank with excess product.
These toxins are heat resistant, so they have to be taken into account in the hazard analysis.
Care should be taken to avoid contamination of the product from components of the containers (e.g. lead) and chemical products (e.g. lubricants, sanitizers, detergents).
Refer to Sections 9.1.2, 9.1.3 and 7.6.2.
• Care must be taken to ensure that the oil or the other fluids used, such as vapour or water, do not impart an undesirable flavour to the product.
The same water should not be used for cooling more than one batch.
For automatic-filled products, a sampling plan should be implemented.
, competent technologists should be consulted as to the need for re-evaluation of the process.
The thermometers should be tested regularly to ensure that they are accurate; calibration records should be maintained; and the recording thermometer readings should never exceed the indicating thermometer reading. Inspections should be made periodically to ensure that retorts are equipped and operated in a manner that will provide thorough and efficient heat processing, and that each retort is properly equipped, filled and used, so that the whole load is brought up to processing temperature quickly and can be maintained at that temperature throughout the whole of the processing period. The inspections should be made under the guidance of a competent technologist.
In order to avoid organoleptic defects in canned fish and shellfish, such as scorch or overcooking, the internal temperature of containers should be lowered as quickly as possible.
Segregating and properly disposing of all defective units or lots that are unfit for human consumption should be ensured.
• Code marks appearing on containers of canned fish and shellfish should also be shown on the cases in which they are packed.
• Metal containers should be kept dry during transportation in order to avoid corrosion and/or rust.
Processing of sturgeon caviar
Certain strains of Vibrio parahaemolyticus can be pathogenic.
The development and condition of the chanterelles must be such as to enable them to: - withstand transportation and handling; and - arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
If sized, the range in size between caps in the same package shall not exceed 5 cm.
Chanterelles shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 44-1995).1
6.2 The produce covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity.
7.2 The produce should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).5
The produce covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995).2
The produce covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity.
The produce should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).5
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Non -Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021),7 each package must bear the following particulars, in letters grouped on the same side, legibly and indelibly marked, and visible from the outside, or in the documents accompanying the shipment .
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the common name of the produce.
If the country of origin or size of each distinctly different species is different, they should be indicated near the name of the species concerned.
Measures applied at the national level should be taken into account in the judgement of equivalence by importing countries, thereby facilitating international trade.
These Guidelines used in conjunction with the OIE recommendations (Chapter 8.15 Infection with Trichinella spp. of the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code), apply to all steps from primary production to consumption.
The Guidelines are supplementary to and should be used in conjunction with the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1–1969), the Code of Hygienic Practice for Meat (CAC/RCP 58-2005), the Code of Practice for the Processing and Handling of Quick Frozen Foods (CAC/RCP 8-1976), the FAO/WHO/OIE Guidelines for the Surveillance, Management, Prevention and Control of Trichinellosis and the Recommendations on Methods for the Control of Trichinella in Domestic and Wild Animals Intended for Human Consumption prepared by the International Commission on Trichinellosis (ICT) Standards for Control Guidelines Committee.
iii. Competent authorities should recognise the equivalence of alternative hygiene control measures where appropriate, and promulgate meat hygiene measures that achieve required outcomes in terms of safety and suitability and facilitate fair practices in the trading of meat.
Risk management activities should incorporate a “primary production-to-consumption” approach in order to identify all steps in the food-chain where control measures are required.
Measures to prevent Trichinella infection in domestic pig herds and to establish a compartment of negligible risk are described in Chapter 8.15 Infection with Trichinella spp. of the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code.
Inactivation of Trichinella spp. by curing should follow the recommendations of ICT.
Positive carcasses should be disposed of according to recommendations of the competent authority.
Retailers and consumers, including people who visit regions or countries where Trichinella is endemic, should be made aware that meat should be fully cooked e.g. a core temperature of at least 71°C as recommended by ICT in order to avoid becoming sick from consuming meat contaminated with parasites.
Public health protection can be assured by: a) a review of evidence, in particular from audits of herds, demonstrating compliance with the conditions as described in Article 8.15.5 of the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code; or b) a risk based slaughter surveillance programme that takes into account information from historical testing results and is supplemented by regular review of information from audits of herds within the compartment; or c) a slaughter surveillance programme incorporating current testing data demonstrating that prevalence of infection does not exceed 1 infected carcass per 1,000,000 pigs slaughtered with at least 95% confidence. In addition to the above, epidemiological investigation of human trichinellosis cases to confirm that the source of the contaminated meat was not from a negligible risk compartment according to Chapter 8.15 Infection with Trichinella spp. of the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code should be conducted to the extent possible. Where applicable and available, slaughter and any other relevant data from outdoor pigs and wild animals can provide additional information on the conditions surrounding the negligible risk compartment and the potential for infection of animals within the compartment.
Representatives from all relevant national bodies, including consumers organisations, business associations etc., should be invited to attend the National Codex Committee in order to expose their views for consideration and inclusion in the national negotiating position.
This implies that all communications from the member country to the Commission and vice versa s hall go through the Codex Contact Point.
In order to meet its main objective, i.e. facilitate the country's active and effective participation in the activities of the Codex Alimentarius Commission, the functions of the national Codex Contact Point shall mainly: a) receive all Codex texts: communications, documents and publications from the Commission; b) study the documents and initiate relevant action either directly or through the National Codex Committee and/or the relevant sub-committee(s) or institution; c) maintain a library of all Codex standards, Codes of Practice, Guidelines and any other documents and publications on or related to Codex; d) distribute Codex documents, publications and other information to all stakeholders; e) serve as the country's link between the Codex Secretariat and other Codex member countries; f) create a website (or a webpage within an existing website) in order to promote Codex activities; g) perform any other task that shall be recommended by the NCC and/or the government.
Whatever is the location of the national Codex Contact Point, it is desirable that the location meets the following criteria; should be as neutral as possible concerning the participation of all interested parties in the Codex activities; should be able to perform the functions of the Codex Contact Point; should be accessible to all interested parties and/or those involved in the activities of Codex.
Participation at the NCC meetings should be reviewed annually and new members appointed to replace dormant members.
Therefore, good feeding practice is important besides management through weed control.
This Code of Practice should be read in conjunction with other relevant Codes of Practice for the prevention and reduction of other contaminants in food and feed.
All management practices presented in this Code of Practice shall be followed in compliance with relevant national or international legislation and standards, including general requirement for consumer and worker protection.
The measures described in this Code of Practice serve therefore as guidance and each measure described in this Code of Practice should be asses sed by national authorities or other professional and advisory bodies to ensure that it is appropriate and practical for their country -specific conditions.
When seeking to prevent the spread of the PA-containing plants, all landowners, occupiers and managers must take a collective responsibility to ensure that effective control of the spread is achieved.
Applying these methods must be directed to the eradication of individual plants and done after good planning taking into account possible risks to the environment.
Therefore, specific management practices to control PA-containing plants are discussed separately hereafter specified by type of land: arable fields, pastures, and areas bordering the crop or pasture.
Attention should be paid to areas bordering the crop, as these may constitute a continuous reservoir for the weed infestation.
Hence, it is recommended to stop grazing during flowering of (a number of) PA-containing plants as their PA-production is then very high.
The plant material used for mulching must be free of PA-plants and their seeds.
Weed-free buffer zones between infested and un-infested lands will help to contain any infestation.
Inspect these quarantine areas regularly to assure no PA-containing plants will start infesting those areas.
Advise the general public on how to prevent the spread of unwanted, PA -containing plants from urban environments into agricultural and other lands.
The development and condition of the passion fruits must be such as to enable them: - to withstand transport and handling; and - to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
They must be free e of defects, with the exception of very slight superficial defects, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package.
When such is the case, the package must be labelled accordingly.
The defects must not, in any case, affect the flesh of the fruit.
Passion fruits shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44-1995).
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1-1985), the following specific provisions apply:
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce: golden passion fruit /sweet granadilla, purple passion fruit, yellow passion fruit and may be labelled as to name of the variety.
The produce should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria related to Foods (CAC/GL 21-1997).
When tested by appropriate methods of sampling and examination, the product: – shall be free from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; – shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and – shall not contain any substance originating from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
When the product is packaged in sacks, these must be clean, sturdy and strongly sewn or sealed.
Pearl millet flour shall be free from filth (impurities of animal origins, including dead insects) in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Moisture content 13 percent m/m max Lower moisture limits should be required for certain destinations in relation to the climate, duration of transport and storage.
Pearl millet flour shall be free from heavy metals in amounts which may represent a hazard to human health.
Pearl millet flour shall comply with those maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC) for this commodity.
Pearl millet flour shall comply with those maximum mycotoxin limits established by the CAC for this commodity.
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “pearl millet flour”.
Consignments of apples for the fresh fruit market which do not meet the recommended mineral compositional standards, as determined by fruit analysis, should therefore be excluded from long-term storage i.e. storage for longer than 3–4 months.
Fruit from orchards with a history of high levels of rot should be harvested separately and not considered for storage.
Apple growers, and other producers of juice who do not have controlled storage facilities, need to ensure that fruits for juicing are pressed as soon as possible after picking.
Ideally fruit for juicing should be kept at < 5 °C between withdrawal from store and juicing and should be utilized as soon as possible.
Any bruising will encourage patulin formation hence bruising should be kept to a minimum, especially if fruit is to be stored for longer than 24 hours at ambient temperature before juicing.
Stored fruit should be transported from the cold store to the processor in the shortest time possible (ideally <24 hours to pressing unless cold stored).
It is essential to prevent the development of such organisms during transport and storage to prevent spoilage of the product and by the same means prevent the production of patulin.
The microbiological quality should be carefully monitored since this indicates not only the risk level of potential organisms for the production of patulin but also the hygienic aspects of the previous stages in the production cycle.
If ungutted, it shall be practically free from undigested feed or used feed.
The products are packed in hermetically sealed containers and shall have received a processing treatment sufficient to ensure commercial sterility.
The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and guidelines for the establishment and application of microbiological criteria related to foods (CXG 21-1997).6 When tested by appropriate methods of sampling and examination as prescribed by the Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC), the product: (i) shall be free from microorganisms capable of development under normal conditions of storage; (ii) no sample unit shall contain histamine that exceeds 20 mg per 100 g; (iii) shall not contain any other substance including substances derived from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health in accordance with standards established by the CAC; and (iv) shall be free from container integrity defects which may compromise the hermetic seal.
In addition to the provisions of the General standard for the labelling of pre-packaged foods (CXS 1-1985)7 the following specific provisions apply:
The products shall be prepared from sound fish of the species listed under Section 2.1 which are of a quality fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
The products shall not contain more than 10 mg/100 g of histamine based on the average of the sample unit tested.
The products shall be examined by the methods given in Section 7.
In addition, the label shall include other descriptive terms that will avoid misleading or confusing the consumer.
The labelling of non -retail containers should be in accordance with the General standard for the labelling of non-retail containers of foods (CXS 346-2021).8
(i) Sampling of lots for examination of the final product as prescribed in Section 3.4 shall be in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (ii) Sampling of lots for examination of net weight and drained weight where appropriate shall be carried out in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan meeting the criteria established by the CAC.
Samples taken for sensory and physical examination shall be assessed by persons trained in such examination and in accordance with the Recommended methods of analysis and sampling (CXS 234-1999)9 and the Guidelines for the sensory evaluation of fish and shellfish in laboratories (CXG 31-1999).10
However, methods used for the analysis of DNA sequences and proteins, must be capable of being performed in many laboratories.
The guidelines specify the relevant criteria and give explanations on how to consider these criteria, i.e.: by providing the rationale for the most relevant criteria and by showing how to find out whether or not a method fulfils the given criteria requirements.
This section describes the method acceptance criteria, which have to be fulfilled by the method in order to conduct a pre-validation and full collaborative trial.
In the case of “general purpose” methods to identify and quantify DNA sequences and proteins in a range of food matrices, at least one extraction method applicable to a general food matrix should be available.
Statistical analyses (e.g. of “repeatability” and “reproducibility”) should be made according to the validation procedure to be subsequently used.
The LOQ needs to be experimentally determined, since the distribution measurement for quantitative PCR is not normally distributed.
This would ensure that any matrix effects are consistent between the standards and the samples.
The purpose of a collaborative trial is to validate the data provided by previous testing in a pre-validation or a single laboratory exercise and to determine methodological precision in terms of repeatability and reproducibility.
When the results of a validation study are reported, it is important that the report includes details of which matrix was analyzed and whether a purified protein or DNA was used as the target for the analysis.
This guidance is based on compliance with ISO/IEC Standard 17025, proficiency testing and internal quality control as well as the use of methods of analysis validated according to Codex requirements.
This annex details the required information when methods are to be considered for validation, setting the context for the following sections.
The description includes information on the scope of the method, unit of measurement, and the following details:
For DNA-based procedures, additional information should be supplied, particularly on Primer pairs, Amplicon length, and instrument or chemistry specificity.
Instead of the template DNA, a corresponding volume of nucleic acid free reagent (such as water or buffer) is added to the reaction.
An overview of the scientific principles on which the method is based (e.g., the molecular biology underlying real-time PCR methods) should be provided.
Recommendations regarding efficiency/use must be clearly stated, including suitability for screening and/or quantification.
It is required from an extraction method, independent of matrix to which it is to be applied, that it yields DNA of sufficient quantity, structural integrity and purity to allow a proper evaluation of the performance of the subsequent method steps (e.g. adequate amplification of DNA during the PCR step) to be undertaken.
Similarly, for protein methods, empirical results from testing the method with proteins from non-target and closely relevant species /varieties/traits, and purified target protein and/or reference positive control materials should be provided.
Empirical results from testing the method for applicability for target in processed foods should be provided.
Therefore, empirical results from testing for a hook effect in target matrices should be provided.
The relative reproducibility standard deviation for the PCR step should be below 35% over the majority of the dynamic range, except at the limit of quantification, where the RSDR could be higher.
The analytes, matrices and concentrations for which a method of analysis may be used should be stated.
The practicability of the method should be assessed by considering parameters such as: the quantity of samples that can be processed within a given time, estimated fixed costs to implement the method and the approximate cost per sample, practical difficulties on daily use or under particular conditions, as well as other factors that could be of importance for the operators.
For quantitative detection, the method of calibration for incomplete extraction may need to be provided.
• Types of analytical controls used: i. Positive and negative controls ii. Internal control used if applicable (competitive or non competitive). iii. Other types of controls like matrix control (to confirm sample was added to PCR) or extraction processing. • Control samples. • Reference materials used.
33. Data on the criteria referred to in Section 2.2, “General Method Criteria” should be provided, as well as a general assessment that the method is fit for its intended purpose.
It is important to note that a method should be validated using the conditions under which it will be performed.
The relative repeatability standard deviation for the PCR step should be ≤25% over the whole dynamic range of the method.
As the method should be selective for the target DNA, it should only give a positive result with a food matrix containing the target DNA.
After such an assessment, selectivity should then be demonstrated experimentally.
• Two replicates should be analyzed for each DNA sample, which shall give results within a Ct-value of 0.5.
Note: since there are different definitions in use for the false positive and false negative rates, the validation report should clarify which one has been used.
In order to ensure reliable results, assays should be validated and a description of the performance characteristics should include sensitivity, selectivity, applicability, limit of detection, robustness, matrix effects, and, if applicable, hook-effect.
In this phase, evidence to support farm-to-table modelling of risk might be structured or mapped into the framework of risk assessment.
The formal record and summary should indicate any constraints, uncertainties, and assumptions and their impact on the Risk Assessment.
The scope of this document applies to Risk Assessment of microbiological hazards in food 1.
This standard applies to the labelling of all pre -packaged foods to be offered as such to the consumer or for catering purposes and to certain aspects relating to the presentation thereof.
The following information shall appear on the label of pre-packaged foods as applicable to the food being labelled, except to the extent otherwise expressly provided in an individual Codex standard:
Except for single ingredient foods, a list of ingredients shall be declared on the label.
ii In accordance with Section 4.1.1, the ingredient declaration should specify the true nature of the food and be specific and not generic.
When it is not possible to provide adequate information on the presence of these food allergens through labelling, the food containing the allergen should not be marketed.
This shall be based on available risk assessment data for the respective population(s)v taking into account risk management considerations.
Such exemptions shall be subject to a risk assessmentvi to establish the safety of the allergenic food derivative.
All ingredients in the list of ingredients shall be declared in accordance with the provisions set out in Section 4.1 (Name of the food) except that: pork fat, lard and beef fat shall always be declared by their specific names.
When a class name is used, for the foods and ingredients listed in Section 4.2.1.4, Section 4.2.1.7 and, where applicable, Section 4.2.1.5, the specified name shall be declared in addition to or as part of the class name.
The name and address of the manufacturer, packer, distributor, importer, exporter or vendor of the food shall be declared.
Each container shall be embossed or otherwise permanently marked in code or in clear to identify the producing factory and the lot.
(i) for liquid foods, by volume; (ii) for solid foods, by weight; and (iii) for semi-solid or viscous foods, either by weight or volume.
on products with a durability of not more than three months; the day and month shall be declared and in addition, the year when competent authorities consider consumers could be misled; and on products with a durability of more than three months at least the month and year shall be declared.
“Use-by <insert date>” or “Expiration date <insert date>” or Best before <insert date>” or “Best Quality-Before <insert date>” as applicable where the day is indicated; or “Use-by end <insert date>” or “Expiration date end <insert date>” or “Best before end < insert date>” or “Best quality-before end <insert date>” as applicable in other cases.
Where only numbers are used to declare the date or where the year is expressed as only two digits, the competent au thority should
Instructions for use, including reconstitution, where applicable, shall be included on the label, as necessary, to ensure correct utilization of the food.
Any special conditions for the storage of the food shall be declared on the label where they are required to support the integrity of the food and, where a date mark is used, the validity of the date depends thereon.
It shall be introduced with the words “ date of manufacture” or “ date of packaging”, as appropriate, and use the format provided in Section 4.7.1(vi).
In both design and use, food inspection and certification systems should be governed by a number of principles which will ensure an optimal outcome consistent with consumer protection and facilitation of trade.
6. Inspection and certification systems should be fully effective in achieving their designated objectives having regard to the determination of the acceptable level of protection which is required.
5. Food inspection and certification systems should be used wherever appropriate to ensure that foods, and their production systems, meet requirements in order to protect consumers against foodborne hazards and deceptive marketing practices and to facilitate trade on the basis of accurate product description.
Such systems should be no more restrictive of trade than is necessary in order to achieve the required level of protection.
Countries should participate actively in the work of the Codex Alimentarius Commission and other relevant international bodies to promote and facilitate the development, adoption and review of Codex norms.
The obligation to demonstrate equivalence rests with the exporting country.
Risk assessment should be based on current available scientific evidence.
In undertaking a risk assessment or in applying the principles of equivalence, importing countries should give due consideration to statements by exporting countries on a national or area basis of freedom from food-related disease.
Countries should ensure that they avoid arbitrary or unjustifiable distinctions in the level of risk deemed to be appropriate in different circumstances so as to avoid discrimination or a disguised restriction on trade.
While respecting legitimate concerns to preserve confidentiality, the principles and operations of food inspection and certification systems should be open to scrutiny by consumers and their representative organizations, and other interested parties.
A reasonable period should be allowed before a new requirement takes effect in order to permit exporting countries, and in particular developing countries, to make necessary changes to methods of production and control measures.
Importing countries should make available to the exporting countries, upon request, timely advice as to the basis of the decision they have taken regarding the compliance of foods with their relevant requirements.
Upon request by the competent authorities of the importing countries, the exporting countries should provide access to view and assess the actual working of their relevant inspection and certification systems.
In the design and application of food inspection and certification systems, importing countries should take into account of the capabilities of developing countries to provide the necessary safeguards.
The products covered by this standard shall comply with maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
It must be free from filth (impurities of animal origin including dead insects) and other extraneous matters.
The name of the product to be shown on the label shall be “Edible sago flour”.
In addition to tackling the role of authorities and entities regulating street food vending, the present examines the standards of this important sector of the food system, and sheds the light on the principles of hygiene that should be respected in every step of the process.
They also aim at helping the relevant authorities in improving the level of theses foods’ preparation and vending processes in way that guarantees safe, healthy and nutritional foods to the consumers, in accessible locations.
The present guidelines define the general hygienic requirements and recommended practices concerning the preparation and vending of street foods.
Each Section of the present document indicates the goals to be achieved and the justifications of such goals, as far as food hygiene is concerned.
Treated water, which shall comply with WHO Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality.
No vendor shall conduct his/her business of preparation, packing, storage, display and sale of any street foods unless he/she is licensed/ registered under the relevant food regulations.
It is essential that basic training in food hygiene is carried out by the relevant authorities prior to issuing or renewing the license/ registration of street food vendors.
3.4.1 Every licensed vendor shall at all times display visibly his/her vendor's License/ Registration and any other notices that are required by the relevant authorities to be displayed.
Every vendor, helper or food handler, during the conduct of his business, shall observe the following:
The equipment, including containers for storing drinking water, should be made of materials which do not transmit toxic substances, odour or taste, are not absorbent (unless its use is intended for that purpose and will not result in food contamination), are resistant to corrosion and capable of withstanding repeated cleaning and disinfection.
7.1 Requirements for ingredients Every vendor should ensure the following
Where necessary, such as in the case of mobile vendors or where potable water supply is not yet available, potable water should be stored in clean water containers.
