In areas without garbage collection service, solid waste is to be disposed of in a sanitary manner, as recommended or approved by the competent authority.
The waste storage area should also be cleaned daily.
Every vendor, helper or food handler should have easy access to sanitary facilities which are kept at all times in a clean and operational condition.
7.1.4 Only permitted food additives should be used and the amount added should follow the specifications provided.
7.2.9 Utensils used for tasting food should be washed immediately after each use.
7.3.11 Ready-to-eat foods intended for continuous serving should be protected from environmental contamination and kept at the following holding temperatures: (j) for food served hot above 60°C; (k) for food served cold below 5 °C; (l) for food served frozen -18°C or below.
All unsold cooked food and prepared beverages that cannot be properly preserved should be safely disposed of at the end of the day.
(d) routine inspection of solid waste disposal areas for the presence or harbourage of pests, taking any and all practical measures to eliminate and further prevent any infestation; and
(c) be well lit, ventilated, and routinely cleaned and sanitized and maintained in good working condition; (d) include hand washing and drying facilities and properly supplied with soap and other needed supplies; (e) contain posters instructing vendors and employees to wash hands thoroughly after each use of the toilet facilities before returning to work; and (f) have doors which are equipped with self-closing devices.
The nature and extent of any adverse health effec ts associated with a food safety emergency should be described, e.g. incubation period, severity, other epidemiological data.
An indication of the countries to which the product has been exported should also be provided, as soon as it is known, to enable countries to quickly identify whether they are likely to be affected, and to help locate the affected foods.
In such instances, this information should be communicated.
Any misinformation should be promptly corrected by competent authorities.
Consumers can safeguard their personal health by remaining informed of and following instructions from competent authorities related to food safety emergencies.
Updated information on the primary official contact point should be provided to INFOSAN.
The Competent authority should also provide clear, relevant, updated, factual and timely communication on the status of the food safety emergency to all relevant stakeholders, using the media it considers appropriate.
Further information can be exchanged as soon as it becomes available.
Information on action taken where available, such as: - measures taken to identify and prevent the sale and export of the food; - measures taken to recall food from markets including whether these recalls are voluntary or mandatory; - measures taken to prevent further problems; - measures taken to reduce the risk by appropriate physical treatment; - methods of diagnosis and treatment of affected persons; - measures taken regarding final disposition (e.g. destruction of the food); - laboratory analyses. - any additional information that may be useful to assess the risk of this event
A website address should be used where available to provide up-to-date information.
Subsequently, the mixture must be fermented and aged; (c) red pepper powder i s mixed and other ingredients may be mixed with the mixture before or after the fermentation process (b) above; and (d) processed by heat or other appropriate means, before or after being hermetically sealed in a container, so as to prevent spoilage.
Any container that fails to meet the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Section 3.2, should be considered a “defective”.
The flavourings used in products covered by this standard should comply with the Guidelines for the Use of Flavourings (CXG 66-2008).4
The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995).5 The products covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
6.2 The products should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).7
(c) Texture: The product shall have an appropriate level of viscosity.
The product shall be practically free from defects such as seeds, peels, grit or any other extraneous matter.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the following specific provisions apply.
As for a product whose indicated weight is more than 5 000 g, the net weight of the product shall not be less than 99 percent of the indicated weight.
A container that fails to meet the requirement for minimum weight of Section 7.2 shall be considered a “defective”.
(1) whole – peeled and unpeeled, with core and coreless/unpitted or pitted of an entire fruit; (2) halves – peeled and unpeeled, with core and coreless /unpitted or pitted fruits that have been cut longitudinally into two approximately equal parts; (3) quarters – peeled and unpeeled, with core and coreless/unpitted or pitted fruits that have been cut into four approximately equal parts; (4) slices – peeled and unpeeled with coreless /pitted fruits that have been cut longitudinally into slices or rings; (5) half slices – uniformly cut, approximately semi-circular halves of slices; (6) broken slices – arc-shaped portions which are not required to be uniform in size and/or shape; (7) tidbits – reasonably uniform wedge-shaped sectors; (8) chunks – short and thick units; (9) dices or cubes – reasonably uniform, cube-shaped units; (10) strips – long fine narrow pieces; (11) sticks – long thin straight pieces; (12) spears – slender sectors cut radially and lengthwise; (13) pieces – (or mixed pieces or irregular pieces) irregular shapes and sizes not identifiable as a specific style; (14) flattened – flattened whole, half or portions of fruits of irregular shape, size and thickness; 2 0.01 0.01 - -
Only preservatives used in accordance with Table 1 and Table 2 of the General standard for food additives (CXS 192-1995)3 in food category 04.1.2.2 (Dried fruit) or listed in Table 3 of the General standard for food additives are acceptable for use in foods conforming to Annex E of this standard.
Only preservatives used in accordance with Table 1 and Table 2 of the General standard for food additives (CXS 192-1995)3 in food category 04.1.2.2 (Dried fruit) or listed in Table 3 of the General standard for food additives are acceptable for use in “dried longan flesh” and “freeze-dried longan stuffed with fruit paste” conforming to Annex D of this standard.
Dried longans stuffed with fruit paste Shall be sufficiently dried to ensure food safety Dried persimmon shall have normal colour, flavour and odour characteristic of dried persimmons, corresponding to the variety of persimmons.
Dried fruits shall have normal colour,ii flavour and odour characteristic of dried fruit, corresponding to the fruit involved, the type of treatment and added optional ingredients used and shall possess texture characteristic of the product.
For products not covered by the annexes, dried fruits shall comply with the maximum moisture content specific to the individual fruit variety ; and dried fruits shall be sufficiently dried to ensure food safety , taking into consideration the effects of preservatives, etc., when used.
(1) cl ean; (2) practically free of any visible foreign matter; (3) free from mouldy fruits; and (4) free from living pests whatever their stage of development, including the presence of dead insects and/or mites, their debris or excreta.
Any standard sample unit, which fails to comply with the quality requirements, as set out in Section 3 .2.5 (Defects) shall be regarded as a defective.
For products covered by the annexes, specific defects and allowances shall be in accordance with the relevant provisions in the corresponding annexes.
Dried apricots that have a moisture content between above 25 percent (by mass) and 40 percent (by mass), shall be labelled as high moisture or equivalent denomination.
The container should be filled with product as full as commercially practicable without impairment of quality and shall be consistent with a proper declaration of contents for the product.
In addition to the general provisions applicable to dried fruits, the following specific provisions apply:
Dried persimmon is the product: (1) prepared from clean sound ripe fruit of a quality suitable for human consumption, of the varieties conforming to the characteristics of Diospyros kaki Thunb; and (2) processed by drying either by the sun or by other methods of dehydration into a form of marketable dried product.
However, when sized, size is determined as follows: (1) dried whole persimmon may be sized in accordance with Table 1. Table 1 Dried whole persimmon Size code No. of fruit per 1 kg 1 Over 34 2 26–33 3 21–25 4 16–20 5 Less than 15 (2) high moisture/semi-dried whole persimmon may be sized in accordance with Table 2. Table 2 High moisture/Semi-dried whole persimmon Size code No. of fruit per 1 kg 1 Over 21 2 16–20 3 11–15 4 Less than 10
The ends of the stems must be cleanly cut.
(1) unpressed or separated in individual fruit, arranged in layers, or loose in the package; and (2) pressed – dates which are compressed into layers using mechanical force.
Use the gross sample for checking carefully for live infestation and general cleanliness of the product prior to its examination for compliance with other provisions of the standard.
Correction functions should be established on the basis of appropriate statistical considerations, documented, archived and available to the client.
2.2.1 Harvest crops at full maturity unless allowing the crop to continue to full maturity would subject it to extreme heat, rainfall or drought conditions. 2.2.2 As much as possible avoid mechanical damage during harvest. 2.2.3 Where applicable dry crops to a minimum moisture content as quickly as possible. 2.2.4 If crops are harvested at high moisture levels dry immediately after harvest. 2.2.5 Avoid piling or heaping wet freshly harvested commodities for more than a few hours prior to drying or threshing to lessen the risk of fungal growth. 2.2.6 Ensure adequate protection from rain during sun drying.
Care must be taken in the use of tarpaulins to avoid sweating of the commodity that could lead to local moisture and heat build up which are prime conditions for fungal growth. Avoid insect and rodent infestation during transport by the use of insect resistant containers or insect and rodent repellent chemical treatments.
In all cases ensure that the aflatoxin B1 level of the finished feed is appropriate for its intended use (i.e. maturity and species of animal being fed) and is consistent with national codes and guidelines or qualified veterinary advice.
Care must be taken in the use of tarpaulins to avoid sweating of the commodity that could lead to local moisture and heat build up which are prime conditions for fungal growth.
Adjust frequency of sampling and testing to take into account conditions conducive to aflatoxin B1 formation, the regional source of the commodity and prior experience within the growing season.
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the okra must be: - whole, with clean cut peduncle; - fresh in appearance; sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; - clean and practically free of any visible foreign matter; - practically free of pests and damage caused by them affecting the general appearance of the produce; - free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; - free of any foreign smell and/or taste; - free from damage caused by low or high temperatures; The development and condition of the okra must be such as to enable them: - to withstand transport and handling; and - to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
Okra is classified in three classes defined below:
The okra must be sufficiently developed, not fibrous.
If the size code is different from the Table, it should be labelled accordingly.
Persons moving from rooms or areas containing raw meat to rooms or areas used for meat preparations and manufactured meat (especially when these products are cooked) should thoroughly wash, change and/or sanitise their protective clothing as appropriate, and otherwise limit the possibility of cross-contamination to the lowest level practicable.
The conditions of storage of meat preparations and manufactured meat should be clearly presented on the packaging.
Establishments should be provided with adequate means of natural or mechanical ventilation so as to prevent excessive heat, humidity and condensation, and ensure that air is not contaminated with odours, dust or smoke.
Special sanitation requirements should be applied to the slaughter and dressing of animals that are condemned or designated as “suspects”.
Cleaning procedures and programmes should: be specified in SSOPs as appropriate to the circumstances;
Persons who come into direct or indirect contact with edible parts of animals or meat in the course of their work should maintain appropriate personal cleanliness and behaviour, and should not be clinically affected by communicable agents likely to be transmitted by meat.
Persons who come into direct or indirect contact with edible parts of animals or meat in the course of their work should:  where necessary, have a medical examination prior to and during employment;  not work while clinically affected by, or suspected to be carrying, communicable agents likely to be transmitted through meat; and  be aware of and comply with reporting requirements to the establishment operator in respect of communicable agent.
Training specified or recognised by the competent authority, should be: i. appropriate to the activities and operations; ii. proportional to the potential of the particular meat hygiene activity to impact on food-borne risks to human health; iii. properly documented, including records of training programme delivery; iv. verified as appropriate; and v. subject to recognition by the competent authority where delivered by third parties.
Training programmes should: • provide personnel with the training, knowledge, skills and ability to carry out specified meat hygiene tasks, e.g. post-mortem inspection, verification of statistical process control, HACCP; • provide practical training to the extent required; • where necessary, arrange for formal testing of personnel; • ensure that personnel involved in supervisory roles have appropriate skills; • recognise and build on professional qualifications; and • provide for the continuing education of competent persons.
The Guidelines for the Design, Operation, Assessment and Accreditation of Food Import and Export Inspection and Certification Systems (CXG 26-1997) provide general requirements for control of operations for food as they relate to international trade.
When edible parts are judged to be safe and suitable for human consumption subject to application of a prescribed process, the specifications for that process should be verified by the competent authority as sufficient to eliminate/reduce or adequately remove the hazard or condition of concern, e.g. specifications for retorting, high temperature rendering and freezing.
Product removal systems designed by the establishment operator should: Incorporate identification, management and operational procedures that facilitates the rapid and complete removal of implicated lots; Provide for records that facilitate trace-back to the origin of the problem; Provide for records that facilitate investigation of any processing inputs that may be implicated; Be reviewed and tested periodically; and Include provision for communication where appropriate to the competent authority, consumers and other interested stakeholders particularly where public health issues are involved.
These measures should prevent cross-contamination to other edible parts and meat, and prevent any possibility of substitution. Parts of animals deemed unsafe or unsuitable for human consumption should be:  placed without delay into specifically identified chutes, containers , trolleys, or other handling facilities;  identified by means as appropriate to the type and end use of the tissue;  in the case of condemned material, handled in rooms reserved for that purpose and conveyed in a secure manner to a place of disposal (e.g. rendering station).
158. Removal of product requires systems that are capable of:  Withdrawal, where measures are applied by the establishment operator to prevent the distribution, display or offer of a product that is not safe or suitable for human consumption;
Internal temperatures of product should be taken as necessary to verify the adequacy of the cook.
Where the establishment operator does not comply with regulatory requirements, the competent authority should carry out enforcement actions that may include:  slowing of production while the operator regains process control;  stopping production, and withdrawing certification for meat deemed to be unsafe or unsuitable for its intended use;  withdrawing official supervision, or accreditation of competent persons;  ordering specified treatment, recall or destruction of meat as necessary; and  withdrawing or suspending all or part of the approval/registration/listing of the establishment if process control systems are invalid or repeatedly non-compliant.
The competent authority should verify compliance with:  GHP requirements for: animals presented for slaughter (and killed wild game presented for dressing), establishments, facilities and equipment, process control, transport, and hygiene of personnel;
116. Whenever there are verifiable quality assurance (QA) systems in place in the industry, the competent authority should take them into account.
Where indicated by public health concerns, routine screening of carcasses and other relevant parts by methods other than organoleptic inspection may be required for suspected hazards, e.g. testing for Trichinella spp.
The responsibilities of the establishment operator in respect of post-mortem inspection include:
Verification of process control of meat by microbiological testing provides a tool for: Assessing the adequacy and efficacy of establishment process control in relation to faecal and other contamination; Assuring the level of control of specified hazards of public health importance; Facilitating development of process criteria at a specified step or combination of steps that achieve microbiological performance objectives or performance criteria; Identifying the need for review and redesign of HACCP plans; Objective comparison of the outcome of different process control systems in different situations; Provision of assurances by competent authorities.
viii. The competent authority should verify compliance with microbiological testing requirements where they are specified in regulation e.g. microbiological statistical process control requirements, standards for Salmonella spp.
Inspected and judged by a competent person, or otherwise determined by the competent authority, as being unsafe or unsuitable for human consumption and requiring appropriate disposal.
Any procedure or test conducted by a competent person on all relevant parts of slaughtered/killed animals for the purpose of judgement of safety and suitability and disposition.
Where different inspection procedures that have the same purpose and context are being evaluated: - An objective basis for comparison of the level of control of hazards associated with these procedures, should be established; - The efficacy of each inspection procedure in detecting abnormalities and visible contamination affecting the safety of meat should be taken into account;
Obtaining evidence that the food hygiene control measure or measures selected to control a hazard in a food is capable of effectively and consistently controlling the hazard to the appropriate level.
The continual review of process control systems by the operator, including corrective and preventative actions to ensure that regulatory and/or specified requirements are met.
There should be a legal obligation on relevant parties to provide any information and assistance as may be required by the competent authority.
Following this, field trials should be undertaken to determine the performance attributes of specified inspection procedures or new technologies relative to the hazards that may be present.
Trial design should include representative surveying of the prevalence (and concentration) of hazards in target tissues that are organoleptically normal, so as to provide a comparison with the prevalence (and concentration) of hazards in those tissues that are organoleptically abnormal.
The competent authority should systematically analyse monitoring and surveillance information from primary production so that meat hygiene requirements may be modified if necessary.
Official or officially-recognised programmes for chemical hazards and contaminants should include measures to control the registration and use of veterinary drugs and pesticides so that residues do not occur in meat at levels that make the product unsafe for human consumption, and provide monitoring and surveillance systems that establish baseline data and guide a risk-based approach to control of such hazards in meat.
Animal identification systems, to the extent practicable, should be in place at primary production level so that the origin of meat can be traced back from the abattoir or establishment to the place of production of the animals.
When selecting post-mortem inspection procedures, priority should be given to those procedures with high correlation between the detection of a specified abnormality and the presence of the hazard of concern.
Alternative technologies for detecting abnormalities e.g. tissue imaging, should be acceptable to the competent authority if validated as being as effective as current procedures.
The competent authority should design and administer monitoring and surveillance programmes appropriate to the circumstances that address: - hazards arising from animals and plants that may compromise the production of meat that is safe and suitable for human consumption; - environmental contaminants that may result in levels in meat that make the product unsafe for human consumption; and - ensuring that potential carriers such as water, are not significant vehicles for transmission of hazards. Facilities and procedures should be in place to ensure that: - housing and feeding platforms where used, and other areas where zoonotic agents and other hazards may accumulate, can be effectively cleaned, and are maintained in a sanitary condition (refer to Section 10); - systems for active processing and/or disposal of dead animals and waste should not constitute a possible source of food-borne hazards to human and animal health; and - chemical hazards required for technological reasons are stored in a manner so that they do not contaminate the environment or feed and feed ingredients and thereby pose a risk to human health.
Transport of slaughter animals should be carried out in a manner that does not have an adverse impact on the safety and suitability of meat.
Ante-mortem inspection is an important pre-slaughter activity, and all relevant information on animals presented for slaughter should be utilised in meat hygiene systems.
ii. The conditions of holding of animals presented for slaughter should minimise cross-contamination with food-borne pathogens and facilitate efficient slaughter and dressing.
The competent authority or the competent body should take into account QA systems properly implemented by the establishment operator, in setting the frequency and intensity of verification activities necessary to determine that the conditions of lairage are in accordance with regulatory requirements.
Characteristics of a risk-based ante-mortem inspection programme are: - procedures for confirmation of proper animal identification in accordance with national legislation; - design and application of organoleptic procedures and tests that are relevant and proportional to meat-borne risks associated with clinical signs of illness and grossly-detectable abnormalities; - tailoring of procedures to the spectrum and prevalence of diseases and defects reasonably likely to be present in the slaughter population, taking into account the type of animal, geographical origin and primary production system; - integration with HACCP-based process control to the extent practicable, e.g. application of objective criteria for ensuring appropriate cleanliness of animals presented for slaughter; - on-going tailoring of procedures to information received from the primary production unit, where practicable; - use of laboratory tests for hazards that are unaddressed by organoleptic inspection when their presence is suspected, e.g. chemical residues and contaminants; and - return of information to the primary producer so as to seek continuous improvement in the safety and suitability status of animals presented for slaughter (refer to 6.4).
Feedback of this information to the primary producer should take place.
So as to facilitate science- and risk-based meat hygiene throughout the entire food chain, systems should be in place that provide: 31 on-going information on animals presented for slaughter for incorporation into HACCP plans and/or quality assurance (QA) programmes that are part of process control; 31 information back to the primary producer on the safety and suitability status of animals presented for slaughter; and 31 information to the competent authority that facilitates on-going review.
Killed wild game should undergo an appropriate inspection before dressing and full post-mortem inspection commences, so as to prevent undue contamination of the dressing environment and wastage of resources.
Lairages should be designed and constructed so that they do not lead to undue soiling of the animal, cause undue stress of the animal, or otherwise adversely impact on the safety and suitability of meat derived from animals held therein.
Inspection of killed wild game for safety and suitability prior to dressing should be risk-based to the extent practicable, and should take into account relevant information available from the field.
Identity of the body of the animal along with those parts required for post-mortem inspection, should be maintained until final post-mortem judgement.
Establishments, facilities and equipment should be designed to allow personnel to carry out their activities in a hygienic manner.
animals can be held without overcrowding or injury, and are not exposed to climatic stress;33 there are appropriate layout and facilities for cleaning and/or drying of animals; ante-mortem inspection is facilitated; floors are paved or slatted and allow good drainage; there is an adequate supply and reticulation of clean water for drinking and cleaning, and facilities are provided for feeding where necessary; there is a physical separation between lairages and areas of an abattoir where edible material may be present; “suspect” animals can be segregated and inspected in separate areas.34 These areas should include facilities that are capable of secure holding of “suspect” animals pending slaughter under supervision, in a manner that precludes contamination of other animals; and there is an adjacent area with adequate facilities for cleaning and sanitation of transport vehicles and crates, unless there are facilities within close distance that are approved by the competent authority.
These facilities should be: constructed so that all parts, gut contents and faeces from condemned animals can be held under secure containment as appropriate to the circumstances; and constructed and equipped so as to facilitate effective cleaning and sanitation (refer to Section 10).
Where these facilities exist they should be:  easily accessed from pens containing “suspect” or injured animals;  constructed with suitable facilities for hygienic storage of parts derived from “suspect” or injured animals;  constructed and equipped so as to facilitate effective cleaning and sanitising (refer to Section 10).
Establishments should have an appropriate area, sufficiently protected from environmental contamination and capable of preventing adverse temperature variations, for dispatching meat.
Equipment should be installed that provides: an adequate and easily accessible supply of hot and cold potable water at all times; hot potable water for effective sanitising of equipment, or an equivalent sanitation system; potable water at a temperature appropriate for hand-washing; and sanitising solution used according to manufacturers’ specifications supplied as and where necessary; Where non-potable water is supplied for various uses e.g. fire fighting, steam production, refrigeration, reticulation systems should be designed and identified so that cross-contamination of the potable water supply is prevented.
Where steam is generated in the cooking of meat, it should be properly vented out of the area in order to minimise the potential for condensation and not be allowed to permeate into adjoining rooms.
Where necessary, separate amenities should be provided e.g. for staff handling live animals, condemned products (refer Section 11).
Vehicles or shipping containers in which unprotected meat is transported should: 6 be designed and equipped so that the meat does not contact the floor; 6 have joint and door seals that prevent entry of all sources of contamination; and 6 where necessary, be equipped so that temperature control and humidity can be maintained and monitored.
slaughtered animals that are scalded, flamed or similarly treated should be scoured of all bristles, hair, scurf, feathers, cuticles and dirt; the trachea and oesophagus should remain intact during bleeding, except in the case of ritual slaughter; bleeding should be as complete as possible; if blood is intended for food, it should be collected and handled in a hygienic manner; exposure of the tongue should be done in such a way that the tonsils are not cut; skinning of the head may not be required for some classes of animals e.g. goats, calves, sheep, provided that heads are handled in such a way as to avoid undue contamination of meat; before the removal from the head of any parts intended for human consumption, the head should be clean and, except in the case of animal bodies that are scalded and dehaired, skinned to an extent sufficient to facilitate inspection and the hygienic removal of specified parts; lactating or obviously -diseased udders should be removed from animal bodies at the earliest opportunity; removal of udders should be done in such as way that the contents do not contaminate the animal bodies; gas skinning or dehiding (pumping of air or gas between the skin or hide and the underlying tissue to facilitate skinning) should only be permitted if it can meet required criteria for process control; and hides/fleeces should not be washed, de-fleshed or left to accumulate in any part of an abattoir or establishment that is used for slaughter or dressing.
Post-mortem inspection systems, should include:  procedures and tests that are risk-based to the extent possible and practicable (refer to 9.5.1);  confirmation of proper stunning and bleeding;  availability of inspection as soon as is practicable after completion of dressing;  visual inspection of the carcass and other relevant parts, including inedible parts, as determined by the competent authority;  palpation and/or incision of the carcass and other relevant parts, including inedible parts, as determined by the competent authority according to a risk-based approach;  additional palpation and/or incisions, as necessary to reach a judgement for an individual carcass and other relevant parts, and under appropriate hygiene control;  more detailed inspection of edible parts intended for human consumption compared with inspection of those parts for indicator purposes alone, as appropriate to the circumstances;  systematic, multiple incisions of lymph nodes where incision is necessary;  other organoleptic inspection procedures, e.g. smell, touch;  where necessary, laboratory diagnostic and other tests carried out by the competent authority or by the establishment operator under instruction;
Striated muscles from affected animal species should have undergone an examination from Trichinella as specified by the competent authority.
In any case, risk management decisions will revolve around the acceptability of the likely human health impact of differences in hazard levels brought about by different inspection procedures.
Once results show that the HACCP-based procedures are providing a consistent level of acceptable performance, subsequent microbiological testing must be sufficient to ensure that process control is maintained.
To allow meaningful analysis and to permit objective comparison of different control systems, methods for the computation of results should be specified, including handling of pooled/individual results, calculation of mean results (e.g. log means) from groups of samples from the same carcass or different carcasses.
The effectiveness of measures to reduce levels of arsenic should be monitored by determining the concentrations of inorganic arsenic in rice.
Aerobic growth may also have to be balanced with the use of flooding for weed control or temperature control in cooler areas.
Consumers should be encouraged to use water for washing and cooking rice that contains lower concentration of arsenic.
Moisture content for thyme shall be 12 percent maximum.
Dried thyme shall have a characteristic colour varying from green ash to brownish grey.
b Any visible objectionable foreign detectable matter or material not usually associated with the natural components of the spi ce plant; such as sticks, stones, burlap bagging, metal, etc.
A lot sample that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Section 3.2 (except those based on sample averages), should be considered as a “defective”.
Dried thyme shall comply with the chemical requirements specified in Table 2. Table 2. Chemical requirements for dried thyme Parameter Requirement Total ash, % mass faction (dry basis), maximum 12.0 Acid-insoluble ash, % mass fraction (dry basis), maximum 3.5 Volatile oils, ml/100 g (dry basis), minimum 1.0
The labelling of non -retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers in Foods (CXS 346-2021).
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the pomegranates must be: ­ whole; ­ sound; produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; ­ clean, free of any visible foreign matter; ­ free of pests and damage caused by them affecting the general appearance of the produce; ­ free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; ­ free of any foreign smell and/or taste; ­ free of damage caused by frost; ­ free of damage caused by low and/or high temperatures; ­ free of sunburns affecting the arils of the fruit.
Pomegranates are classified in three classes as defined below:
The development and condition of the pomegranates must be such as to enable them: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
Pomegranates shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44-1995).
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety, class, size (if sized) expressed in accordance with any one of the following methods: count, size code and range, size range.
Only products that comply with the criteria laid down in the provisions of this section of the standard shall be presented as follow-up formula for older infants.
Drink for young children with added nutrients or product for young children with added nutrients or drink for young children or product for young children is so processed by physical means only and so packaged as to prevent spoilage and contamination under all normal conditions of handling, storage, and distribution in the country where the product is sold.
When added for this purpose, the final product ready for consumption shall contain sufficient amounts of viable cultures to achieve the intended effect.
Levels may need to be determined by national authorities.
They shall conform with their normal quality requirements, such as colour, flavour and odour.
Vitamin compounds and mineral salts used in accordance with Sections 3.1.3 (d) and (e) and 3.2.1 should be selected from the Advisory Lists of Nutrient Compounds for Use in Foods for Special Dietary Uses Intended for Infants and Young Children (CXG 10-1979).
The flavourings used in products covered by this standard should comply with the Guidelines for the Use of Flavourings (CXG 66-2008).15 12) National and/or regional authorities may restrict or prohibit the use of the listed flavourings.
should be selected from the Advisory Lists of Nutrient Compounds for Use in Foods for Special Dietary Uses Intended for Infants and Young Children (CXG 10-1979).4
The text of the label and all other information accompanying the product shall be written in the appropriate language(s).
The declaration of nutrition information for follow-up formula for older infants shall contain the following information which should be in the following order: a) the amount of energy, expressed in kilocalories (kcal) and/or kilojoules (kJ), and the number of grams of protein, carbohydrate and fat per 100 g or per 100 ml of the food as sold as well as per 100 ml of the food ready for use, when prepared according to the instructions on the label ; b) the total quantity of each vitamin and mineral as listed in pa ragraph 3.1.3 of Section A and any other ingredient as listed in paragraph 3.2 of Section A per 100 g or per 100 ml of the food as sold as well as per 100 ml of the food ready for use, when prepared according to the instructions on the label; and c) in addition, the declaration of nutrients in a) and b) per 100 kcal or per 100 kJ is permitted. The declaration of nutrition information for the product as defined in Section 2.1 shall contain the following information which should be in the following order:
The date marking and storage instructions shall be in accordance with Section 4.7 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985).11 Where practicable, storage instructions shall be in close proximity to the date marking.
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234-1999) relevant to the provisions in this standard, shall be used.
d) the statement “The use of this product should not lead to cessation of continued breastfeeding”.
Only products that comply with the criteria laid down in the provisions of this section of this standard shall be presented as the product defined in Section 2.1.
If additional mandatory nutrients are added, the nutrient levels must be based on the nutrient composition of follow-up formula for older infants (3.1.3 , Section A) which is informed by the composition of breastmilk and take into account the inherent levels of nutrients in cows’ milk.
shall be “Drink for young children with added nutrients” or “Product for young children with added nutrients” or “Drink for young children” or “Product for young children”, or any appropriate designation indicating the true nature of the product, in accordance with national or regional usage.
Not restricted 60–70% Moisture on fat free basis: 67% – Not specified Dry matter: 22% Restricted by the MFFB Not specified Compositional modifications of Cream Cheese beyond the minima and maxima specified above for milkfat, moisture and dry matter are not considered to be in compliance with Section 4.3.3 of the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999).
Suitable qualifiers are the appropriate characterizing terms spec ified in Section 7.3 of the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978) or a nutritional claim in accordance with the Guidelines for Use of Nutrition and Health Claims (CXG 23-1997)2.
2.2.1 Colour Except for artificially coloured canned strawberries, the strawberries shall have normal colour characteristics for canned strawberries and typical of the variety used.
Canned strawberries shall have a normal flavour and odour free from flavours and odours foreign to the product.
The strawberries shall have a reasonably uniform texture and shall not be excessively firm or unreasonably soft.
A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in subsection 2.2.1 through 2.2.4 (except extraneous plant material which is based on averages), shall be considered a "defective".
5.3 When tested by appropriate methods of sampling and examination, the product: - shall be free from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; - shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and - shall not contain any substance originating from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985),2 the following specific provisions apply:
The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).3
For checking the compliance with this standard, the methods of analysis and sampling contained in the Recommended Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CXS 234 -1999) relevant to the provisions in this standard shall be used.
The exporting country should appropriately scope the request for an equivalence determination by identifying the sanitary measures and food commodity combination to be submitted for consideration.
i) Where risk assessment is used in the demonstration of equivalence, countries should strive to achieve consistency in the techniques applied, using internationally accepted methodology where available and taking into account relevant Codex texts.
The importing country should, at the request of the exporting country, specify as precisely as possible an objective basis for comparison of the sanitary measures proposed by the exporting country and its own measures.
The exporting country must decide on which of the importing country’s measures it will meet by compliance and for which measures it will seek equivalence.
i) An attempt should be made to resolve any differences of opinion over judgement of a submission, either interim or final.
19. Judgement of equivalence by the importing country should be based on a transparent analytical process that is objective and consistent, and includes consultation with all interested parties to the extent practicable and reasonable.
Depending upon the nature of the OBC (see the section on Objective Basis of Comparison in this appendix), exporting countries should provide the following information and data:
4. Preparatory steps, that should be considered include: a) the exporting country considering the benefits and cost/resource implications of an equivalence determination in comparison to other arrangements that meet the same outcome; b) as appropriate, taking into account the considerations relating to setting priorities contained in Section 5 Paragraph 9, “Considerations before entering into bilateral or multilateral discussions”, of the Guidelines for the Development of Equivalence Agreements Regarding Food Import and Export Inspection and Certification Systems (CAC/GL 34-1999); c) whether the importing and exporting countries have access to the necessary scientific and technical resources to carry out an equivalence determination, recognizing that a proposal for equivalence will need to be well considered and documented; d) where appropriate the importing and exporting country should at an early stage in the equivalence determination process develop a plan containing objectives, milestones, timelines and/or expected outcomes.
The OBC development process should, as appropriate: a) ensure sufficient data to provide valid support for conclusions;
In the process of judging equivalence the importing country should focus on those measures or groups of measures which the exporting country and importing country have mutually agreed will be the subject of the equivalence determination.
Where equivalence is not found, the reasoning for this should be given to the exporting country and should be included in the written report with suggestions for solutions where possible.
In preparing for an on -site visit, both the importing and exporting country should consider: the development of a protocol for the on-site visit; limiting the scope of on -site visits to the food product or group of food products and the associated sanitary measures that are the subject of the equivalence determination.
b) Wherever possible and practical, competent authorities should formulate risk management metrics so as to objectively express the level of control of Salmonella in beef and pork meat that is required to meet public health goals.
Risk managers need the flexibility to choose risk management options that are appropriate to their national context.
Practical measures to control Salmonella during primary production should be implemented.
Implementation involves giving effect to the selected control measure(s), development of implementation plan, communication on the decision on control measure(s), ensuring a regulatory framework and infrastructure for implementation exists, and a monitoring and evaluation process to assess whether the control measure(s) have been properly implemented.
Refer to the Section 9.2 of the Code of Hygienic Practice for Meat (CAC/RCP 58-2005).
The documented process control systems should describe the activities applied including any sampling procedures, specified targets (e.g. performance objectives or performance criteria) set for Salmonella, industry verification activities, and corrective and preventive actions.
Where this occurs, the competent authority should stipulate specific functions to be carried out.
Systematic review of monitoring information allows the competent authority and relevant stakeholders to make decisions in terms of the overall effectiveness of the food safety control systems and make improvements where necessary.
Record keeping is important to facilitate verification and for traceability purposes.
The competent authority and/or competent body should verify that all regulatory control measures implemented by industry comply with regulatory requirements, as appropriate, for control of Salmonella.
Activities supporting an integrated response include: Surveillance of clinical salmonellosis in humans Epidemiological investigations including outbreaks and sporadic cases
Where monitoring of hazards or risks indicates that regulatory performance goals are not being met, risk management strategies and/or control measures should be reviewed.
Monitoring of food chain information in combination with food source attribution data and human health surveillance data are important components14.
In case of shedding reflex, faeces should be removed in a sanitary manner.
Regardless of the slaughter method, it is important for the establishment to minimize contamination of the carcass during any cut made at this step.
Measures should be taken to avoid cross -contamination; cleaning and disinfection of the processing environment should be maintained and carcass contact with the floor while being transferred to the line should be avoided.
Special care should be taken to prevent recontamination and increases in bacterial load when using a dehairing machine.
Prevent contaminated water from dripping down the back of the carcass.
c) If the gastrointestinal tract has been punctured causing a major contamination the carcass should be identified and additional procedures to avoid cross-contamination should be performed.
Consideration should be given as to whether carcasses have been adequately reconditioned in a sanitary manner, if contaminated by faeces voided during the gambrelling step.
Carcasses with visual contamination should be removed from the line and sent for reconditioning (knife trimming or steam vacuuming) before carcass splitting.
Cross -contamination should be avoided by allowing adequate distance between carcasses (i.e. avoid carcass-to-carcass contact) and walls and equipment.
Measures to minimize contamination of heads, equipment, and employees can include : a) Removing heads in a manner that avoids contamination with digestive tract contents. b) Limiting the splashing of water when washing heads in order to prevent cross-contamination and to limit airborne contaminants.
Sanitary conditions should be maintained in the chilling room.
Airflow should be controlled to prevent cross-contamination from slaughter operations e.g. positive air pressure in carcass fabrication area relative to other areas in the slaughter operations.
Meat should be chilled before loading onto the vehicle for transport.
Storage room temperature should be monitored and documented.
Products should be kept at a temperature to prevent the growth of Salmonella.
The above information to consumers should be provided by the competent authorities, local government, health agencies, manufacturers, retailers or other consumer sources and through multiple channels such as national media, health care professionals, food hygiene trainers, product labels, pamphlets, school curricula and cooking demonstrations.
There should be increased awareness when handling of the meat throughout the rest of the food chain.
d) Ensure proper cooking.
The above information to consumers should be provided by the competent authority, local government, health agencies, manufacturers, retailers or other consumer sources and through multiple channels such as national media, health care professionals, food hygiene trainers, product labels, pamphlets, school curricula and cooking demonstrations.
Scalding water temperature should be at least 61°C for 8 minutes or 70°C for 2-3 minutes or another combination of time and temperature that can achieve an equivalent Salmonella reduction23.
When gambrel tables are used, carcass contamination should be minimized by cleaning and disinfecting gambrel table when needed to remove faecal materials before processing is resumed.
Singeing temperature should be homogeneous on the carcass as areas such as the base of the ears might not reach the required temperature to inactivate Salmonella.
There should be increased awareness of the risk of contamination when handling of the meat throughout the rest of the food chain.
The temperature of the packaging and storage rooms and meat should be monitored and documented.
This Code applies in addition to the principles of food hygiene already established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission, taking into account the special aspects of animal feeding.
Notwithstanding this, best efforts have been made to ensure that the recommendations and practices in this Code of Practice will not be detrimental to the more general animal health and environmental aspects of animal feeding.
Undesirable Substances: Contaminants and other substances which are present in and/or on feed and feed ingredients and which constitute a risk to consumers’ health, including food safety related animal health issues.
Such collaboration will enable the development and maintenance of appropriate risk management options and safe feeding practices.
Feed ingredients should meet acceptable and, if applicable, statutory standards for levels of pathogens, mycotoxins, pesticides and undesirable substances that may give rise to consumers’ health hazards.
Records should be maintained and readily available regarding the production, distribution and use of feed and feed ingredients to facilitate the prompt trace-back of feed and feed ingredients to the immediate previous source and trace-forward to the next subsequent recipients if known or probable adverse effects on consumers’ health are identified.
The information should be as detailed as possible and should at least contain a description of the nature of the problem, a description of the feed or feed ingredients, the species for which it is intended, the lot identifier.
Monitoring of feed and feed ingredients, whether by industry or official inspection bodies, should include inspection and sampling and analysis to detect unacceptable levels of undesirable substances.
The effective implementation of GMPs and, where applicable, HACCP -based approaches should ensure, in particular, that the following areas are addressed.
Sewage, waste and rain water should be disposed of in a manner which avoids contamination of equipment, feed and feed ingredients.
All feed and feed ingredients should be stored and transported in a manner which minimizes deterioration and contamination and enables the correct feed to be sent to the right animal group.
Dry feed and feed ingredients should be kept dry in order to limit fungal and bacterial growth.
All personnel involved in the manufacture, storage and handling of feed and feed ingredients should be adequately trained and aware of their role and responsibility in protecting food safety.
Special precautions should be taken when cleaning machinery used for moist and semi-moist feed and feed ingredients to avoid fungal and bacterial growth.
All other equipment used in the manufacture of feed and feed ingredients should be appropriate for the range of weights or volumes being processed, and be monitored regularly.
Pathogen control procedures, such as heat treatment or the addition of authorised chemicals, should be used where appropriate, and monitored at the applicable steps in the manufacturing process.
Records and other information should be maintained as indicated in sub-section 4.3 of this Code to include the identity and distribution of feed and feed ingredients so that any feed or feed ingredient considered to pose a threat to consumers’ health can be rapidly removed from the market and that animals exposed to the relevant feed can be identified.
Good pasture management practices, such as rotational grazing and dispersion of manure droppings, should be used to reduce cross-contamination between groups of animals.
Chemical fertilizers should be handled, stored and applied in a manner such that they do not have a negative impact on the safety of foods of animal origin.
61. Pesticides and other agricultural chemicals should be disposed of responsibly in a manner that will not lead to contamination of any body of water, soil, feed or feed ingredients that may lead to the contamination of foods of animal origin which could adversely affect food safety.
In particular, feed should be mixed in a manner that will minimize the potential for cross -contamination between feed or feed ingredients that may have an effect on the safety or withholding period for the feed or feed ingredients.
67. Records should be kept of incoming feed ingredients, date of receipt and batches of feed produced in addition to other applicable records set out in sub-section 4.3 of the Code.
68. Good animal feeding practices include those practices that help to e nsure the proper use of feed and feed ingredients on-farm while minimising biological, chemical and physical risks to consumers of foods of animal origin.
Care should be taken to avoid animal access to contaminated land, and to facilities with potential sources of toxicity.
Where there is reason to be concerned about contamination of animals from the water, measures should be taken to evaluate and minimise the hazards.
Where agricultural chemicals are used, operators should ensure that the required withholding periods are observed.
Feed transport vehicles and feeding equipment used to deliver and distribute medicated feed should be cleaned after use, if a different medicated feed or non -medicated feed or feed ingredient is to be transported next.
Operators and employees working in the animal production unit should observe appropriate hygiene requirements to minimise potential hazards to food safety from feed.
To ensure food safety, necessary precautions should be taken regarding culturing methods, culturing sites, technologies, materials and feed used to minimize contamination in order to reduce food hazards.
81. Sampling protocols should meet scientifically recognized principles and procedures.
Laboratories conducting routine analyses of feed and feed ingredients should ensure their analytical competency with each method used and maintain appropriate documentation.
This article applies when there are no specific requirements in the listed disease-specific chapter. a) vaccination is compulsory in the target population and is practised in accordance with Chapter 4.18.; b) detailed information on vaccination campaigns, in particular: submit a detailed plan of the programme to control and eventually eradicate dog-mediated rabies in the country including: a) the timeline; b) the performance indicators for assessing the effectiveness of the control measures to be implemented; c) documentation indicating that dog-mediated rabies is a notifiable disease and that the official control programme for dog-mediated rabies is applicable to the entire country;
submit a dossier on dog-mediated rabies in the country describing the following: a) the general epidemiology in the country highlighting the current knowledge and gaps in knowledge and the progress that has been made in controlling dog-mediated rabies; b) the measures implemented to prevent introduction of infection; c) the rapid detection of, and response to, dog-mediated rabies cases, to reduce the incidence and to eliminate transmission in at least one zone in the country; d) dog population control programme in accordance with Chapter 7.7.;
The following steps should be taken when drafting international veterinary certificates:
For the purposes of the Terrestrial Code:
The establishment or facility should be approved by the Veterinary Authority and the means of protection should at least comprise the following: a) appropriate physical barriers at entry and exit points, for example double-door entry-exit system; b) openings of the building are vector screened with mesh of appropriate gauge impregnated regularly with an approved insecticide in accordance with the instructions of the manufacturer; c) vector surveillance and control within and around the building; d) measures to limit or eliminate breeding sites for vectors in vicinity of the establishment or facility; e) Standard Operating Procedure, including description of back-up and alarm systems, for operation of the establishment or facility and transport of equids to the place of loading.
To qualify as free from AD, an establishment should satisfy the following conditions: a) it is under the control of the Veterinary Authority; b) no clinical, virological or serological evidence of AD has been found for at least one year; c) the introduction of pigs, semen, oocytes and embryos into the establishment is carried out in accordance with the import conditions for these commodities contained in the relevant articles of the present chapter; d) vaccination against AD has not been carried out in the establishment for at least 12 months, and any previously vaccinated pigs are free from gE antibodies; e) a representative sample of breeding pigs from the establishment has been subjected, with negative results, to serological tests to the whole AD virus, applying a sampling procedure set out in accordance with the recommendations in Chapter 1.4.; these tests should have been carried out on two occasions, at an interval of two months; for establishments that contain no breeding pigs, the tests should be carried out only once on a comparable number of fattening or weaning pigs; f) a surveillance and control programme has been in place to detect infected establishments located within a prescribed radius from the establishment and no establishment is known to be infected within this zone.
For wild and feral swine Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the animals: 1) showed no clinical sign of AD on the day of shipment; 2) were captured in an AD free country or zone; 3) have not been vaccinated against the disease; 4) were isolated in a quarantine station, and were subjected to a serological test to the whole AD virus, with negative results, on two occasions, at an interval of not less than 30 days between each test, the second test being performed during the 15 days prior to shipment.
For semen of pigs Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor animals: a) showed no clinical sign of AD on the day of collection of the semen; b) were kept in an establishment or semen collection centre located in an AD free country or zone at the time of semen collection; 2) the semen was collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.6. and 4.7.
For semen of pigs Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor animals: a) have been kept for at least four months prior to semen collection in a semen collection centre which has the status of AD free establishment, and where all boars are subjected to a serological test to the whole ADvirus, with negative results, every four months; b) showed no clinical sign of AD on the day of collection; 2) the semen was collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.6. and 4.7.
For semen of pigs Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor animals: a) were kept in an AD free establishment for at least six months prior to entering the semen collection centre; b) have been kept for at least fourmonths prior to semen collection in the semen collection centre which has the status of AD free establishment, and where all boars are subjected to a serological test to the whole AD virus, with negative results, every four months; c) were subjected to a serological test to the whole AD virus, with negative results, within 10 days prior to or 21 days after semen collection; d) showed no clinical sign of AD on the day of collection; 2) the semen was collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.6. and 4.7.
For in vivo derived embryos of pigs Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor females: a) showed no clinical sign of AD on the day of collection of the embryos; b) were kept in an establishment located in an AD free country or zone prior to collection; 2) the embryos were collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.8. and 4.10., as relevant.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor females: a) showed no clinical sign of AD on the day of collection of the embryos; b) were kept in an AD free establishment for at least three months prior to collection; 2) the embryos were collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.8. and 4.10., as relevant.
