Each package must bear the following particulars, in letters grouped on the same side, legibly and indelibly marked, and visible from the outside.
Each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to the name of commercial type.
In the case of a mixture of distinctly different commercial types of aubergines of different origins, the indication of each country of origin shall appear next to the name of the commercial types concerned.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, the commercial types and the quantity of each in the package must be indicated.
In the case of a mixture of distinctly different commercial types of aubergines of different origins, the indication of each country of origin shall appear next to the name of the variety concerned.
Sweetened fruit juice or fruit pulp, depending on the concentration in Brix degrees (Brix) measured in the final product, shall be designated as follows:
Depending on the concentration in Brix measured in the final product, these shall be designated as follows:
Application of the following preventive measures is recommended, in viticulture regions in which the climatic conditions are favourable to the formation of OTA in vine products in order to reduce endemic risk which favours the onset of the most damaging vine diseases: – Favour vine establishment in well aerated areas while avoiding very humid areas. – Draw up plots of land with adequate planting disposition, and vegetation architecture (trellising system) to: • facilitate planting operations; • avoid direct contact of grapes bunches with the soil; • ensure good pest and disease control; • minimise the risk of grapes sun burn; • promote the uniform ripening of the grape.
Ensure that regional authorities and grower organisations: • analyse and identify the species and strains of toxigenic fungi present in their region; • combine this information with regional risk factors including meteorological data and viticultural techniques and propose appropriate management; • communicate this information to growers.
Ensure training of producers with regards to: • risk of mould and mycotoxins;
Under conditions with a risk of OTA contamination, it is recommended to measure the level of OTA in the musts to be used in winemaking.
– It is important to clean containers after each load, especially in the case of harvests where the containers may have been used to harvest grapes that may be rotten.
– Avoid post-harvest heating treatments and aggressive and prolonged macerations. – In the case of contamination by OTA, it is preferable to treat the grape s and the musts with the lowest possible and most effective doses of oenological charcoal in order to avoid possible loss of aromatic and polyphenolic compounds when the treatment is carried out on wine.
Before use: • Become informed of effectiveness of product used and application technology. • Carry out trials with different dosages to ascertain sensory repercussions and application rate.
The following information is required for each novel VPP.
Each novel VPP should be subjected to the following analysis using procedures indicated in the Recommended General Standard for VPP unless otherwise specified.
The annex to these guidelines, which is based on revised PAG/UNU Guideline No. 6, should be consulted for testing the safety and nutritional quality of VPP.
(c) Any nutrient labelling should be in accordance with the Codex Guidelines on Nutrition Labelling.
7.6 In the case of a simulated animal product in which 100% of the protein is from VPP, the established or common name of the food should be the name of the VPP with appropriate flavour designation or other descriptive phrasing.
As with any other foods, these VPP foods should be safe, should be produced in accordance with Good Manufacturing Practices and should be labelled in accordance with the Codex Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods.
This description should be sufficient to enable those evaluating the product to identify potential problem areas, such as processing damage to the nutrient content.
The nutritional value of the VPP should be predicted first from its amino acid content and then by means of (insert reference to method for determining protein quality as described in the applicable Codex standard).
The procedures that are required to maintain adequate sanitation with respect to the sources of raw materials and conditions under which they are processed to produce the VPP should be included.
The VPP should be examined to determine numbers and types of micro -organisms to be expected under sanitary conditions of production or processing and to establish its freedom from microbial toxins and toxigenic organisms.
Nutritive value of VPP should be assessed by (insert reference to method for protein quality described in appropriate Codex Standard).
The product should be examined for the presence of potentially hazardous solvent residues.
They should be carried out in accordance with recognized codes of Good Laboratory Practice.
The presence and amount of non-protein nitrogenous components, if any, should be determined.
The solvent extract should also be examined for the presence of unusual (e.g. cyclic) fatty acids.
The material should be analysed for its content of metals or minerals or toxicological or nutritional significance (including arsenic, calcium, cadmium, copper, fluoride, iron, lead, magnesium, manganese, mercury, phosphorous, potassium, selenium, sodium and zinc).
Analysis should be carried out to characterize the available (digestible) carbohydrates.
Analysis should be conducted for all of the major vitamins except those for which low lipid content or instability under processing conditions indicate little likelihood of their presence in significant amounts.
Groups should be large enough to provide statistically adequate data.
Reports of investigations must include complete details, data for control as well as test groups and appropriate statistical analysis of the findings.
Following an appraisal of the source and the method of manufacture of the VPP together with the results of nutritional and subacute toxicit y studies, the need for further studies including chronic, reproduction, teratogenic and mutagenic studies will be evaluated.
Subacute toxicity feeding trials should be of at least three months duration.
GHPs and the HACCP system aim to:  provide principles and guidance on the applicati on of GHPs applicable throughout the food chain to provide food that is safe and suitable for consumption;  provide guidance on the application of HACCP principles;  clarify the relationship between GHPs and HACCP; and  provide the basis on which sector and product-specific codes of practice can be established.
This document provides a framework of general principles for producing safe and suitable food for consumption by outlining necessary hygiene and food safety controls to be implemented in produ ction (including primary production), processing, manufacturing, preparation, packaging, storage, distribution, retail, food service operation and transport of food, and where appropriate, specific food safety control measures at certain steps throughout the food chain.
Consumers should play their role by following relevant guidance and instructions for food handling, preparation, and storage and applying appropriate food hygiene measures.
(v) Control me asures that are essential to achieve an acceptable level of food safety, should be scientifically validated.
Management should ensure the effectiveness of the food hygiene systems in place by: • ensuring that roles, responsibilities, and authorities are clearly communicated in the food business; • maintaining the integrity of the food hygiene system when changes are planned and implemented; • verifying that controls are carried out and working and that documentation is up to date; • ensuring that the appropriate training and supervision are in place for personnel; • ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory requirements; and • encouraging continual improvement, where appropriate, taking into account developments in science, technology and best practice.
Where significant hazards are identified that need to be controlled after the implementation of GHPs, it will be necessary to develop and implement a HACCP system (see Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point [HACCP] System and Guidelines for its Application).
Not all provisions apply for all primary production situations and consideration will need to be given by the FBO on the appropriateness of the measures to be taken.
Producers should as far as practicable, implement measures to: control contamination from soil, water, feedstuffs, fertilizers (including natural fertilizers), pesticides, veterinary drugs or any other agent used in primary production; protect food sources from faecal and other contamination (e.g. zoonotic foodborne agents); control plant and animal health so that it does not pose a threat to human health through food consumption, or adversely affect the suitability of the product (e.g. observe the withdrawal period of veterinary drugs and pesticides, keeping records where applicable); and manage waste and store harmful substances appropriately.
Care should be taken to prevent deterioration and spoilage through appropriate measures which may include controlling temperature, humidity, and/or other controls.
Appropriate facilities and procedures should be in place to ensure that: cleaning and maintenance are carried out effectively and do not compromise food safety (e.g. ensuring equipment used in harvest is not a source of contamination); and an appropriate degree of personal hygiene is maintained to ensure personnel are not a source of contamination (e.g. by human faeces).
In particular, unless sufficient safeguards are provided, establishments should normally be located away from: environmentally polluted areas and industrial activities which are reasonably likely to contaminate food; areas subject to flooding; areas prone to infestations of pests; and areas where waste, either solid or liquid, cannot be removed effectively.
Areas having different levels of hygiene control (e.g. the raw material and finished product areas) should be separated to minimize cross-contamination through measures such as physical separation (e.g. walls, partitions) and/or location (e.g. distance), traffic flow (e.g. one-directional production flow), airflow, or separation in time, with suitable cleaning and disinfection between uses.
In particular, the following specific conditions should be satisfied, where necessary, to protect the safety and suitability of food: the surfaces of walls, partitions and floors should be made of impervious materials that are easy to clean and, where necessary, disinfect; walls and partitions should have a smooth surface up to a height appropriate to the operation; floors should be constructed to allow adequate drainage and cleaning; ceilings and overhead fixtures (e.g. lighting) should be constructed to be shatterproof where appropriate, and finished to minimize the build-up of dirt and condensation and the shedding of particles; windows should be easy to clean, be constructed to minimize the build-up of dirt and, where necessary, be fitted with removable and cleanable insect-proof screens;
Adequate facilities for toileting and washing hands should be provided, where appropriate.
Containers used to hold hazardous substances prior to disposal should be identified and, where appropriate, be lockable to prevent intentional or accidental contamination of food.
Where appropriate, facilities for washing food should be separate from facilities for cleaning utensils and equipment, and separate sinks should be available for hand washing and food washing.
Depending on the nature of the food operations undertaken, adequate facilities should be available for heating, cooling, cooking, refrigerating and freezing food, for storing refrigerated or frozen foods, and, when necessary, controlling ambient temperatures to ensure the safety and suitability of food.
Adequate means of natural or mechanical ventilation should be provided, in particular to: minimize airborne contamination of food, for example, from aerosols and condensation droplets; help control ambient temperatures; control odours which might affect the suitability of food; and control humidity to ensure the safety and suitability of food (e.g. to prevent an increase in moisture of dried foods that would allow growth of microorganisms and production of toxic metabolites).
Light fittings should, where appropriate, be protected to ensure that food is not contaminated by breakages of lighting elements.
Separate, secure, storage facilities for cleaning materials and hazardous substances should be provided.
Where necessary, equipment should be durable and movable or capable of being disassembled to allow for maintenance, cleaning, disinfection and to facilitate inspection for pests.
Where necessary, such equipment should have effective means of controlling and monitoring humidity, airflow and any other characteristics likely to have an effect on the safety or suitability of food.
Those who handle cleaning chemicals or other potentially hazardous chemicals should be instructed in proper use to prevent contamination of food.
Personnel tasked to perform any activities used in food control should be trained adequately to ensure that they are competent to perform their tasks and are aware of the impact of their tasks on the safety and suitability of the food.
Adequate hygiene training, and/or instruction and supervision of all personnel involved in food-related activities contribute to ensuring the safety of food and its suitability for consumption.
Records should be kept of training activities.
They should specify: areas, items of equipment and utensils to be cleaned, and, where appropriate, disinfected; responsibility for particular tasks; method and frequency of cleaning and, where appropriate, disinfection; and monitoring and verification activities.
Cleaning equipment should be kept clean, maintained, and replaced periodically so as not to become a source for cross-contamination of surfaces or food.
Care should be taken to ensure cleaning procedures do not lead to contamination of food, e.g. spray from pressure washing can spread contamination from dirty areas, such as floors and drains, over a wide area and contaminate food contact surfaces or exposed food.
Cleaning and disinfection and maintenance procedures should be regularly reviewed and adapted to reflect any changes in circumstances and documented as appropriate.
Animals should, wherever possible, be excluded from the grounds of food-processing establishments.
Landscaping surrounding a food establishment should be designed to minimize attracting and harbouring pests.
Even if monitoring and detection are outsourced, FBOs should review monitoring reports and, if necessary, ensure they or their designated pest control operators take corrective action (e.g. eradication of pests, elimination of harbourage sites or invasion routes).
Records should be kept of infestation, monitoring and eradication.
They should also be located away from processing areas.
Appropriate measures should be applied to ensure plasters do not become a source of contamination (e.g. plasters of contrasting colour compared to the food and/or detectable using a metal detector or X-ray detector).
Hand sanitizers should not replace hand washing and should be used only after hands have been washed.
Visitors should be guided through a hygiene policy of the business prior to visits and encouraged to report any type of illness/injury that may pose cross-contamination issues.
Records of corrective actions should be retained.
Records of GHP verification activities should be kept, where appropriate.
Temperature monitoring and recording devices should be checked for accuracy and calibrated at regular intervals or as needed.
Procedures should be in place for personnel to follow in the case of breakages (e.g. breakage of glass or plastic containers).
Food additives and food processing aids that may be harmful if used improperly should be controlled so they are only used as intended.
Where necessary , food handlers should receive specific training on allergen awareness and associated food manufacturing/processing practices and preventive measures to reduce the risk to allergic consumers.
Documentation of key information for incoming materials (e.g. supplier details, date of receipt, quantity etc.) should be maintained.
Any reusable packaging should be suitably durable, easy to clean and, where necessary, to disinfect.
Water recirculated for reuse and water recovered from e.g. food processing operations, by evaporation and/or filtration should be treated, where necessary, to ensure that the water does not compromise the safety and suitability of food.
Appropriate records for the food business operation should be retained for a period that exceeds the shelf -life of the product or as determined by the competent authority.
The cause and extent of a recall and the corrective actions taken should be retained by the FBO as documented information.
During transportation, measures should be taken where necessary to: • protect food from potential sources of contamination, including allergen cross-contact; • protect food from damage likely to render the food unsuitable for consumption; and • provide an environment which effectively controls the growth of pathogenic or spoilage microorganisms and the production of toxins in food.
A traceability/product tracing system should be designed and implemented according to the Principles for Traceability/Product Tracing as a Tool within a Food Inspection and Certification System (CXG 60-2006),8 specifically to enable the recall of the products, where necessary.
All food products should be accompanied by or bear adequate information to enable the next FBO in the food chain or the consumer to handle, prepare, display, store, and/or use the product safely and correctly.
The General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985)7 applies.
Consumers should also be informed of the WHO five keys to safer food1 and educated to apply appropriate food hygiene measures (e.g. proper hand washing, adequate storage and cooking and avoiding cross contamination) to ensure that their food is safe and suitable for consumption.
Where necessary, conveyances and bulk containers should be designed and constructed so that they: • do not contaminate foods or packaging; • can be effectively cleaned and, where necessary, disinfected and dried; • permit effective separation of different foods or foods from non-food items that could cause contamination where necessary during transport; • provide effective protection from contamination, including dust and fumes; • can effectively maintain the temperature, humidity, atmosphere, and other conditions necessary to protect food from harmful or undesirable microbial growth and deterioration likely to render it unsafe or unsuitable for consumption; • allow any necessary temperature, humidity, and other environmental conditions to be checked.
Where the same conveyance or container is used for transporting different foods, or non-foods, effective cleaning and, where necessary, disinfection, and drying should take place between loads.
A multi-disciplinary approach is strongly recommended; this multi-disciplinary approach should be appropriate to the food business operation and may include, for example, expertise in primary production, microbiology, public health, food technology, environmental health, chemistry, and engineering, according to the particular application.
The HACCP system is designed, validated and implemented in accordance with the following seven principles:
Periodic review should also be conducted when the application of the HACCP principles has resulted in a determination that no CCPs are needed, in order to assess whether the need for CCPs has changed.
The efficacy of any HACCP system will nevertheless rely on management and personnel having the appropriate HACCP knowledge and skills, therefore ongoing training is necessary for all levels of personnel, including managers, as appropriate to the food business.
The scope should describe which food products and processes are covered.
Any limits relevant to the food product already established for hazards should be considered and accounted for in the HACCP plan, e.g. limits for food additives, regulatory microbiological criteria, maximum allowed veterinary medicines residues, and times and temperatures for heat treatments prescribed by competent authorities.
Flow diagrams should, as appropriate, include but not be limited to the following: the sequence and interaction of the steps in the operation; where raw materials, ingredients, processing aids, packaging materials, utilities and intermediate products enter the flow; any outsourced processes; where applicable reworking and recycling take place; where end products, intermediate products, waste, and by-products are released or removed.
The confirmation of the flow diagram should be performed by a person or persons with sufficient knowledge of the processing operation.
If no control measures exist at any step for an identified significant hazard, then the product or process should be modified.
The adjustments should be taken before a deviation occurs.
Periodic review of corrective actions should be undertaken to identify trends and to ensure corrective actions are effective.
Any changes having a potential impact on food safety should require a review of the HACCP system, and when necessary, a revalidation of the HACCP plan.
The review should include confirmation that various verification activities have been executed as intended.
Examples of documentation include: - HACCP team composition; - hazard analysis and the scientific support for the hazards included or excluded from the plan; - CCP determination; - critical limit determination and the scientific support for the limits set; - validation of control measures; and - modifications made to the HACCP plan.
Opportunities should be provided for the joint training of FBOs and competent authorities to encourage and maintain a continuous dialogue and create a climate of understanding in the practical application of HACCP.
Validation should be carried out (Guidelines for the Validation of Food Safety Control Measures CXG 69-2008).
The corrective actions should ensure that the CCP has been brought under control and food that is pot entially unsafe is handled appropriately and does not reach consumers.
Necessary to ensure the HACCP system is properly implemented.
Necessary to ensure critical limit is met: continuously during production; or if not continuous, at appropriate frequency that ensures to the extent possible the critical limit has been met.
Necessary to allow the FBO to demonstrate ongoing control of significant hazards.
Necessary: scheduled verification of implementation of control measures, e.g. through record review, sampling and testing, calibration of measuring equipment, internal audit.
Another approach is to do a separate hazard analysis on ingredients and one on the processing steps.
**** Return to the beginning of the decision tree after a new hazard analysis.
Number the CCP and include in HACCP worksheet.
Competent authorities formulating risk management metrics8 as regulatory control measures should apply a methodology that is scientifically robust and transparent.
The user of the decision support tool at the national level should: take responsibility for the appropriateness of the scientific data that is introduced; be aware of the uncertainty that inevitably accompanies risk modelling and in conjunction with the risk manager, use the web-based tool to explore risk management options and inform risk management decisions, rather than provide a prescriptive base; not use the tool to impose specific scientific assumptions.
Periodic review of monitoring data at relevant process steps should be used to inform future decisions on selection of specific control measures, and provide a basis for their validation. Information gained from monitoring in the food chain should be integrated with public health surveillance, food source attribution data, and withdrawal and recall data, where available to evaluate and review the effectiveness of control measures. Where monitoring of hazards or risks indicates that regulatory performance goals are not being achieved, risk management strategies and/or control measures should be reviewed.
21. Individual premises will have variations in process flow and should adapt design of HACCP plans accordingly. Process Flow Diagram 1: Primary production to Consumption 1. Manage grandparent flocks 2. Transport eggs to hatchery 3. Parent Hatchery 4. Transport day-old chicks to parent farms 5. Manage parent flocks
Two principles that have particularly been taken into account in these Guidelines are: i. The principles of food safety risk analysis should be incorporated wherever possible and appropriate in the control of Campylobacter and Salmonella in chicken meat from primary production to consumption ii. Wherever possible and practical, Competent Authorities should formulate risk management metrics so as to objectively express the level of control of Campylobacter and Salmonella in chicken meat that is required to meet public health goals.
When not practical, eggs from Salmonella-positive flocks should be transported separately.
33. The control measures described at Step 1 apply at this Step.
Trace back of contamination to the infected breeding flocks should be performed and control measures should be reviewed.
32. Personnel involved in the transporta tion of day-old chicks to pare nt flocks should not enter any livestock buildings and should prevent cross contamination of day old chicks during loading and unloading.
All live bird transport crates and modules should be cleaned, disinfected and dried to the greatest extent practicable before re-use.
The use of specific control measures such as competitive exclusion bacteria, organic acids in pre-slaughter drinking water and organic acids or formaldehyde in feed, may require approval by a competent authority to permit their use.
All live bird transport crates and modules should be cleaned, disinfected and dried to the greatest extent practicable, before reuse.
Stress to chickens should be minimised, e.g. by dim lighting, minimal handling and avoiding delays in processing.
50. Where numbers of chickens that are dead on arrival, moribund, unhealthy or otherwise unsuitable for processing exceed expected levels, the processor should notify the relevant responsible person, e.g. the competent authority, the farmer, veterinarian, catcher or transportation company, so that appropriate preventative and/or corrective action can be taken.
53. Bleeding should be substantially completed before scalding in order to prevent inhalation of scald water and to reduce the amount of blood entering the scalder.
Contamination during scalding can be minimised by: • The use of counter-current flow • High flow rates of water with adequate agitation • Having an optimum scalding temperature to minimise levels of Campylobacter and Salmonella • Use of approved chemicals e.g. pH regulators.
Cross contamination at defeathering can be minimised by: • Ensuring appropriate fasting of chickens prior to slaughter • Prevention of feather build-up on equipment • Continuous rinsing of equipment and carcasses • Regular adjustment and maintenance of equipment • Particular attention to cleaning moving parts • Regular inspection and replacement of plucker fingers.
Heads should be pulled downwards to reduce contamination due to crop rupture.
Rupture of the viscera and spread of faeces can be minimised by:
63. Where possible, crops should be extracted in a manner that is likely to limit carcass contamination.
74. Line speeds and the amount of light should be appropriate for effective post-mortem inspection of carcasses for visible contamination, organoleptic defects and relevant gross pathology.
Design and operation of chilling systems should ensure that the target temperature of chilled carcasses is achieved by the time carcasses exit the chiller.
76. If water sprays are used during air chilling to prevent desiccation of carcasses, they should be arranged to minimise cross contamination.
Following chilling, any excess water should be allowed to drain away from the carcasses to minimise cross-contamination of carcasses at subsequent steps in the processing chain.
Chilled carcasses should be held in temperature controlled environments and processed as soon as possible, or with the addition of ice to minimise the growth of Salmonella.
Chilled carcasses should be held in temperature controlled environments and processed as soon as possible or with the addition of ice to minimise the growth of Salmonella.
Where irradiation is permitted, levels should be validated and approved by the competent authority.
For Salmonella Products should be stored at temperatures preventing growth of Salmonella.
Products should be stored at temperatures preventing growth of Salmonella.
For Campylobacter and Salmonella 108. Chicken meat should be cooked according to a process that is capable of achieving at least a 7 log reduction in both Campylobacter and Salmonella.
Extra packaging should be supplied at the display counter to allow customers to separate chicken from other purchases.
For Salmonella 107. Products should be stored at temperatures preventing growth of Salmonella.
For Salmonella and Campylobacter 115. Chicken meat should be cooked according to a process that is capable of achieving at least a 7 log reduction in both Campylobacter and Salmonella31
Validation of control measures should be carried out prior to their implementation.
The competent authority should provide guidelines and other implementation tools to industry as appropriate, for the development of the process control systems.
Verification frequency should vary according to the operational aspects of process control, the historical performance of the establishment and the results of verification itself.
The competent authority and/or competent body should verify that all regulatory control measures implemented by industry comply with regulatory requirements as appropriate for control of Campylobacter and/or Salmonella.
“Modern Biotechnology” means the application of: i) In vitro nucleic acid techniques, including recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and direct injection of nucleic acid into cells or organelles, or ii) Fusion of cells beyond the taxonomic family, that overcome natural physiological reproductive or recombinant barriers and that are not techniques used in traditional breeding and selection. “Conventional Counterpart” means a related organism/variety, its components and/or products for which there is experience of establishing safety based on common use as food.
Risk assessment should take into account all available scientific data and information derived from different testing procedures, provided that the procedures are scientifically sound and the parameters being measured are comparable.
9. The risk analysis process for foods derived from modern biotechnology should be consistent with the Codex Working Principles for Risk Analysis.
Regulatory authorities, international organisations and expert bodies and industry should facilitate through appropriate contact points including but not limited to Codex Contact Points and other appropriate means, the exchange of information including the information on analytical methods.
This should include consistency of data requirements, assessment frameworks, the acceptable level of risk, communication and consultation mechanisms and timely decision processes.
The views of all interested parties should be sought and relevant food safety and nutritional issues that are raised during consultation should be addressed during the risk analysis process.
The maximum absorbed dose delivered to a food should not exceed 10kGy, except when necessary to achieve a legitimate technological purpose.
Foods to be irradiated and their packaging materials shall be of suitable quality, acceptable hygienic condition and appropriate for this purpose and shall be handled, before and after irradiation, according to good manufacturing practices taking into account the particular requirements of the technology of the process.
The analytical methods used should be those adopted by the Codex Commission.
For irradiated foods, whether prepackaged or not, the relevant shipping documents shall give appropriate information to identify the registered facility which has irradiated the food, the date(s) of treatment, irradiation dose and lot identification.
The labelling of prepackaged irradiated foods should indicate the treatment and in all aspects should be in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Codex General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1-1985, Rev.2-1999).
In the case of products sold in bulk to the ultimate consumer, the international logo and the words “irradiated” or “treated with ionizing radiation” should appear together with the name of the product on the container in which products are placed.
Compositional modifications beyond the minimum and maximum specified above for fat free dry matter are not considered to be in compliance with Section 4.3.3 of the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999).
These Guidelines should be used in accordance with the Global Strategy for Infants and Young Child Feeding and World Health Assembly Resolution WHA54.2 (2001).
The following raw materials, most of which are locally available, are suitable ingredients for the production of Formulated Complementary Foods for older infants and young children under the specified conditions given below:
to eliminate dirt, damaged grains, foreign grains and noxious seeds, insects and insect excreta and any adhering material.
when necessary, pulses, legumes, oilseeds and certain cereals such as oats, barley, sorghum, millet and teff should be dehulled as completely as is feasible to reduce the fibre content to acceptable levels and to decrease, and if possible, to eliminate phytates, tannins and other phenolic materials, trypsin and chymotrypsin inhibitors which can lower the protein digestibility and amino acid bioavailability and mineral absorption.
where necessary and appropriate, degermination of wheat, corn, soy and other crops should be considered in order to reduce the phytate content.
Milling or grinding of suitable raw materials should be carried out in such a way as to minimize the loss of nutritional value and to avoid undesirable changes in the technological properties of the ingredients.
The malted raw material is milled or ground after drying.
The selection of raw materials and ingredients for the formulation of Formulated Complementary Foods for Older Infants and Young Children should be made having regard to the provisions in Sections 4 and 5 and taking into account the following aspects: nutrient content of the local diet; dietary habits and infant feeding practices; other socio-economic aspects as determined by the national authorities dealing with nutrition; availability and quality of raw materials and ingredients.
All processing should be carried out in a manner that maintains protein quality and minimizes loss of micronutrients and maintains overall nutritive value.
The extruded product, after drying if necessary, is milled or ground to the desired particle size.
After raising the temperature to inactivate the enzyme, the slurry is dried and comminuted to flour or to small flakes to allow for greater nutrient density.
Any carbohydrate added for sweetness should be used sparingly.
The dietary fibre content of the Formulated Complementary Food should therefore be reduced to a level not exceeding 5 g per 100 g on a dry weight basis.
These measures should take into account the specific nature of the products concerned and the specific population group for which they are intended.
The vitamin and mineral content and presence of antinutritive substances in the other ingredients used in the formulation of the food should be taken into account.
The declaration of energy and nutrients on the label or in labelling shall contain the following information expressed per 100 grammes of the Formulated Complementary Food as sold or otherwise distributed as well as per feeding of the food ready for consumption: (a) energy value, expressed in kilocalories and kilojoules; (b) the amounts of protein, carbohydrates and fat, expressed in grammes; (c) in addition to any other nutritional information required by national legislation, the total quantity per feeding of the Formulated Complementary Food ready for consumption of each vitamin and mineral added in accordance with Section 6.6, expressed in metric units.
The product covered by the provisions of these Guidelines shall comply with those maximum residue limits and maximum levels established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The ingredients and final product should be prepared, packed and held under sanitary conditions and should comply with relevant Codex texts16.
Where the Codex Alimentarius Commission has established a standard for any such substance used as packaging material, that standard shall apply.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CODEX CXS 1-1985) and the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999), the following specific provisions apply:
The development and condition of the durians must be such as to enable them: to withstand transport and handling; and to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
Durians shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44-1995).
In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed, the rambutans must be: ­ whole; ­ sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; ­ clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; ­ practically free of pests and damage caused by them affecting the general appearance of the produce; ­ free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage; ­ free of any foreign smell and/or taste; ­ fresh in appearance; ­ free of damage caused by low and/or high temperatures.
The development and condition of the rambutans must be such as to enable them: ­ to withstand transport and handling; and ­ to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination.
Rambutans shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Recommended International Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44-1995).
In this case the pedicel must b e detached at first knot and the maximum length must not extend more than 5 mm beyond the top of the fruit.
The stem of each bunch must not exceed 20 cm in length measured from the attachment of the highest fruit.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce “Rambutan” and may be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type, including specified characteristic of “individually” or “in bunches”.
The moisture content of the beans is reduced to a maximum of 12.5% to prevent OTA production.
This could augment normal spore dispersal rates and increase the chance of infection of beans by OTA producers. c) Use traps (such as alcohol traps) for Hypothenemus hampei control before harvesting, and encourage the use of the integrated pest management (IPM) programme.
b) Where possible, place mats, canvas or tarpaulins beneath the trees to prevent contamination by old fallen cherries. c) Ensure that there are adequate arrangements for the subsequent storage and processing of the crop, so that conditions favour mould growth or other damage are avoided.
When harvest coincides with a rainy or high humidity season, measures to optimize drying must be adopted.
Monitoring procedures and frequencies should be established as well as the type and level of inoculum (in the in-coming cherry) and ambient temperature.
Check pulping surfaces for wear.
In addition define quality and acceptability criteria, the monitoring procedures and
clean, reassemble and lubricate the processing equipment; inspect the installation and check it is operational, so that there is enough time for repairs if any problem occurs.
Moisture measuring equipment should be regularly cross checked and calibrated once a year before harvest against the ISO 6673 method.
d.5) Protect the drying yard area from animals, which can be a source of biological contamination for the drying coffee.
When developing a national food control system national governments and their competent authority should ensure that the objectives of the system are addressed as outlined in the principles below and should allow for flexibility and modification as required to ensure the objectives can be achieved.
The objective of a national food control system is to protect the health of consumers and ensure fair practices in the food trade.
A national food control system should be based on the following principles:
In the event of a conflict with other interests, precedence should be given to protecting the health of consumers.
The national food control system should cover the entire food chain from primary production to consumption.
Transparency considerations apply to all participants in the food chain and this can be achieved through clear documentation and communication.
Academics and scientific institutions have a role in contributing to a national food control system, as they are a source of expertise to support the risk based and scientific foundation of such a system.
The concept of recognition of systems, including equivalence, should be provided for in the national food control system.
The government within each country should have in place fundamental legal structures to enable the establishment of food laws and competent authorities, so that they can develop, establish, implement, maintain and enforce a national food control system.
A national food control system should have sufficient resources to enable it to meet the system’s objectives.
The competent authority and all participants acting in official functions should be free of improper or undue influence or conflict of interest.
A competent authority should make decisions within a national food control system based on scientific information, evidence and/or risk analysis principles as appropriate.
The competent authorities within a national food control system should operate in a cooperative and coordinated manner, within clearly assigned roles and responsibilities, for the most effective use of resources in order to minimise duplication and/or gaps and to facilitate information exchange.
To prevent and when necessary to respond to food safety incidents a national food control system should encompass the core elements of prevention, intervention and response.
The national food control system should possess the capacity and capability to undergo continuous improvement and include mechanisms to evaluate whether the system is able to achieve its objective.
Provides leadership and coordination for the national food control system; Designs, develops, operates, evaluates and improves the national food control system; Establishes, implements and enforces science and risk based regulatory requirements that encourage and promote positive food safety outcomes; Establishes, implements and enforces regulatory requirements supporting fair practices in the food trade; Establishes and maintains arrangements with supporting organizations such as officially recognised inspection, audit, certification and accreditation bodies, where appropriate; Advances and fosters knowledge, science, research and education regarding food safety; Engages with stakeholders to ensure transparency and to obtain their views; and Where appropriate, establishes and maintains arrangements with other countries e.g. cooperation programs, equivalence agreements etc.
Once public policy goals and desired outcomes for the national food control system are established, they should be clearly articulated and described in order to effectively guide subsequent actions.
iii) Characteristic 3 Continuous Improvement means that a national food control system should possess the capability to learn through a process of review and reform utilising mechanisms that check and evaluate whether the system is able to achieve its objectives.
National food control systems should be designed to ensure administrative procedures are in place for documentation of control programs and their findings.
A national food control system should be subject to regular review of results obtained so that it can be continuously improved to reflect changes in product risk, the production environment (including technology), increased scientific knowledge, and level of confidence in industry, to ensure the objective of the national food control system is met in an efficient and effective manner.
Consideration should be given to the development of communication programs to provide outreach and education programs and information exchange on food safety risks and mitigation steps which may be taken to reduce these risks, amongst regulators, food business operators, consumers and academia.
Basic elements of food safety educational activities should be widely disseminated, preferably using mass communication.
Where appropriate, the competent authority should utilize the Principles and Guidelines for the Exchange of Information in Food Safety Emergency Situations (CAC/GL 19-1995), the International Health Regulations (IHR), OIE disease notification requirements, IPPC regulations and the International Food Safety Authorities Network (INFOSAN), for national and international emergency notification and response.
The assessment of control programs should cover issues such as: • Effectiveness of control procedures; • Suitability in achieving objectives; • Whether the program has covered relevant stages in the production chain, taking into account risk factors; and • Consideration of emerging trends.
Competent authorities should consider the results of monitoring and review processes and take preventive or corrective action or improve the system as appropriate.
The label shall contain a statement that the product should be stored out of reach of young children.
It does not apply to products indicated as intended for further processing or for other industrial purposes.
Quick frozen fillets are slices of fish of irregular size and shape which are removed from the carcass of the same species of fish suitable for human consumption by cuts made parallel to the backbone and sections of such fillets cut so as to facilitate packing, and processed in accordance with the process definitions given in Section 2.2.
Quick frozen fish fillets shall be prepared from sound fish which are of a quality fit to be sold fresh for human consumption.
In addition to the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1 -1985), the following specific provisions apply:
The label shall include terms to indicate that the product shall be stored at a temperature of -18º C or colder.
(ii) Sampling of lots for examination of net weight shall be carried out in accorda nce with an appropriate sampling plan meeting the criteria established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The entire sample unit is examined non -destructively by placing appropriate portions of the thawed sample unit on a 5 mm thick acryl sheet with 45% translucency and candled with a light source giving 1500 lux 30 cm above the sheet.
Remove adhering water by the use of paper towel and weight the product in a tared pan.
Canned applesauce is the comminuted or chopped product: a) prepared from washed, clean apples, conforming to the characteristics of the fruit of Malus domesticus Borkhausen which may have been peeled and which after trimming are sound; b) prepared with or without other permitted ingredients as described in Section 3.1.2; and c) processed by heat, in an appropriate manner, before or after being hermetically sealed in a container, so as to prevent spoilage.
The number, size, and prominence of defects (such as seeds or particles thereof, peel, carpel tissue, bruised apple particles, dark particles, and any other extraneous material of like nature) should not seriously affect the appearance or the eating quality of the product.
5.1 The product covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum levels of the General Standard for Contaminants and Toxins in Food and Feed (CXS 193-1995).1 5.2 The product covered by this standard shall comply with the maximum residue limits for pesticides established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
6.2 The product should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria related to Foods (CXG 21-1997).3
Maintenance of the structures and training methods to strengthen the response by the networks are also addressed.
Information is compared between cases and controls.
In this section, such structures are described in the form of official networks at different organizational levels, along with some of the good practices and standard tools to include in the system.
Competent authorities, other than those at the national/federal level, are referred to as “local” and these may contain sublevels that should also be involved.
This will enable the competent authorities to define when a number of cases exceeds the expected number and may result in the identification of an outbreak; timely centralization and distribution of information through early warning systems; disease notification by medical practitioners to competent authorities should be made mandatory to the extent possible; and analysis (e.g. weekly) of the data in order to detect outbreaks in a timely manner.
It is recommended that the information exchange include where possible: new signals (increasing trends or sudden elevated numbers of analytical findings/disease reports) from these sectors and follow-up on ongoing outbreaks; the use of preferably harmonized and standardized laboratory methods to allow comparability and sharing of laboratory data among human health, food control and veterinary sectors; tools for sharing surveillance data and epidemiological information such as databases or data sharing sites; tools for comparing and presenting data, such as a phylogenetic tree (a branching diagram or “tree” showing the evolutionary relationships o f the physical or genetic characteristics of the foodborne pathogen isolates at hand); and epidemiological data to evaluate the relevance of the source and to conduct tracing back.
They should include but are not limited to:
In terms of risk communication, the preparedness should aim to:
