Canned strawberries may be of any suitable variety (cultivar) of cultivated strawberry.
When not prohibited in the country of sale, the following packing media may be used: slightly sweetened water ) water slightly sweetened ) Not less than 10 oBrix but less than 14 oBrix extra light syrup ) extra heavy syrup More than 22 oBrix
Importing countries may be able to reduce the frequency and extent of verification measures following a judgment of equivalence of measures applied in the exporting country.
(This concept may otherwise be referred to as the “acceptable level of risk”.)
This Appendix relates to the equivalence determination of sanitary measures associated with a food inspection and certification system and clarifies certain aspects of the Guidelines on the Judgement of Equivalence of Sanitary Measures Associated with Food Inspection and Certification (CAC/GL 53 -2003 referred to below as “the Guidelines”).
Factors that may facilitate the equivalence determination of sanitary measures could include the following: a) the experience, knowledge and confidence the importing country has with the exporting country’s food control system (see paragraphs 9 to 14 below); b) the prior history in food trade between the importing and exporting countries; c) the level of compliance of th e exporting country’s food products with the importing country’s requirements; d) the level of cooperation that exists between the food safety competent authorities of the importing and exporting countries; e) the extent to which importing and exporting countrie s’ food control systems are similar (e.g., the similarity of food laws and regulations, the capabilities of professional staff and laboratories, the similarity of inspection and monitoring programs); f) being well prepared to undertake an equivalence determination, including that the importing and exporting countries have access to the necessary resources such as the scientific and technical capabilities; g) consideration of the relevance of any previous equivalence determinations made by the importing country.
Specifically, categorisation may assist with organising sanitary measures, carrying out side-by-side comparisons of those measures where appropriate, and identifying which measures will be the subject of the equivalence determination.
Other examples that may inform the importing country’s experience, knowledge and confidence could include: a) general knowledge of the exporting country’s food control system which may be demonstrated by, among other things, a side by side comparison; b) results of audits/inspections/field examinations by the importing country, exporting country, other countries, or other officially recognized third party organizations; c) knowledge of the exporting country’s application and implementation of the risk analysis principles in their food control system; d) point of entry inspection and test results, including records of import rejections and alerts by the importing country as well as from other trading partners; e) agreements the importing country may already have with the exporting country, including equivalence agreements; f) bilateral or multilateral agreements on recognition of equivalence that either importing or exporting countries may have with other countries; g) impact on food control systems as a consequence of organisational/structural/administrative changes in the exporting countries competent authority/ies; h) contingency plans for containing and mitigating the effects of food safety emergencies; i) food borne disease surveillance data associated with the food product; j) the degree to which industry in the exporting country uses appropriate processing controls; k) adequacy of the exporting country’s legislation and, as appropriate, quality control systems; l) level/form of oversight of the food production system by the exporting country’s certifying authority; m) acknowledgement and evaluation of pre-existing certification systems conducted or carried out by the exporting country; n) any specific export control system in operation.
The following section expands on information presented in paragraph 10-12 of the Guidelines and provides additional guidance relating to what constitutes experience, knowledge and confidence.
a) in making a decision how to proceed with a request for a judgement of equivalence; b) in setting priorities, as may be appropriate (reference should also be made to Section 5, “Considerations Before Entering into Bilateral or Multilateral Discussions”, of the Codex Guidelines for the Development of Equivalence Agreements Regarding Food Import and Export Inspection and Certification Systems (CAC/GL 34-1999)); c) in informing the process of comparing the exporting country’s relevant sanitary measures with the importing country’s sanitary measures; d) in reducing the number of sanitary measures that are to be the subject of a detailed examination; e) in reducing the extent of the scientific evidence required to determine equivalence.
The following section provides additional guidance on what information should be contained in a country’s submission for an equivalence determination.
d) following an assessment of the information gathered during onsite visits by the importing country;
It is possible that technical assistance may be needed by importing and exporting countries in carrying out equivalence determinations.
The rationale for on-site visits related to the determination of equivalence may include:
To help clarify information provided by the exporting country relevant to its sanitary measures subject to the equivalence determination; to gather additional information on the exporting country’s proposed measures that may be required by the importing country to undertake a judgement of equivalence; to improve knowledge and confidence in the exporting country’s food control system.
Countries considering the need for technical assistance with respect to equivalence determinations or countries considering providing technical assistance, may wish to consider the following: assistance in evaluating which measures would be the subject of an equivalence determination; assistance with the preparation of documentation, including the submittal package; assistance in undertaking necessary risk assessments; assistance with data analysis;
Industry may derive risk-based measures to facilitate application of process control systems.
Control measures that may have particular impact on the control of Salmonella include:
When developing risk-based control measures, competent authorities may use the quantitative examples of the likely level of control of a hazard in this document.
Industry may set stricter targets than those set by the competent authority.
Details for specific hazard-based controls can be found under Step 18, Pre-chill Treatment
Details for specific hazard-based controls can be found under Step 5, Stunning * Details for specific hazard-based controls can be found under Step 8, Dehiding 16 Code of Hygienic Practice for Meat (CAC/RCP 58-2005).
Refer to relevant Chapters of the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code.
Refer to relevant Chapters of the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code and the Code of Hygienic Practice for Meat (CAC/RCP 58-2005).
Also refer to relevant Chapters of the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code and the Code of Hygienic Practice for Meat (CAC/RCP 58-2005).
Contamination detection techniques, for example, chlorophyll detection equipment, may be used, at this point or later in the dressing process, as a means to identify faecal material on carcasses.
The treatment may be also applied at other suitable stages.
Maximum residue limits set for food, such as those established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission, may be useful in determining minimum safety standards for feed.
6) The complete text of the Terrestrial Code is available on WOAH Web site and individual chapters may be downloaded from: https://www.woah.org/.
Exporters should also be reminded of the International Air Transport Association rules governing air transport of animals and animal products.
In addition, during any stopover in countries or zones not free from AHS, prior to the opening of any aircraft door and until all doors are closed, netting of appropriate gauge impregnated with an approved insecticide should be placed over all crates, containers or jet stalls.
International veterinary certificates should be kept as simple as possible and should be clearly worded, to avoid misunderstanding of the importing country's requirements;
It may elicit protective actions, result in learned avoidance and distress and may modify species-specific traits of behaviour.
The study population used for a serological survey should be representative of the population at risk in the country or zone.
When authorising import or transit of the following commodities, Veterinary Authorities should not require any Brucella-related conditions, regardless of the Brucella infection status of the animal population of the exporting country: 1) skeletal muscle meat, brain and spinal cord, digestive tract, thymus, thyroid and parathyroid glands and derived products; 2) cured hides and skins; 3) gelatine, collagen, tallow and protein meal.
Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor animals showed no clinical sign of infection with Brucella on the day of collection of the semen;
NB: FIRST ADOPTED IN 2015; MOST RECENT UPDATE ADOPTED IN 2016.
Provided the conditions of point 4 are fulfilled, the status of a country or zone will not be affected by applying official emergency vaccination to susceptible animals in zoological collections in the face of a FMD threat identified by the Veterinary Authorities, provided that the following conditions are met: – the zoological collection has the primary purpose of exhibiting animals or preserving rare species, has been identified, including the boundaries of the facility, and is included in the country's contingency plan for FMD; – appropriate biosecurity is in place, including effective separation from other susceptible domestic populations or wildlife; – the susceptible animals are identified as belonging to the collection and any movements can be traced; – the vaccine used complies with the standards described in the Terrestrial Manual; – vaccination is conducted under the supervision of the Veterinary Authority; – the zoological collection is placed under surveillance for at least 12 months after vaccination. A country or zone free from FMD where vaccination is not practised may maintain its free status despite an incursion of African buffaloes from a neighbouring infected country or zone provided that it is demonstrated that the provisions in this article continue to be met and documented evidence has been submitted to and accepted by WOAH. Texto detalhado do artigo da seção 8.8.3 na página anterior.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the animals: 1) showed no clinical sign of Japanese encephalitis on the day of shipment; and EITHER 2) were kept for the 21 days prior to shipment, in an insect-proof quarantine station and were protected from insect vector attacks during their transportation from the quarantine station to the place of shipment; OR 3) were vaccinated against Japanese encephalitis not less than 7 days and no more than 12 months prior to shipment.
The vaccine was produced and used in accordance with the Terrestrial Manual.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the animals: 1) showed no clinical sign of rabies the day prior to or on the day of shipment; 2) and either: a) were kept since birth or at least six months prior to shipment in a free country or zone; or b) were imported in accordance with Articles 8.15.7., 8.15.8., 8.15.9. or 8.15.10.
When authorising the import or transit of the following commodities, Veterinary Authorities should not require any Trichinella-related conditions, regardless of the status of the animal population of the exporting country or zone: 1) hides, skins, hair and bristles; 2) semen, oocytes and embryos.
Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the honey bees come from apiaries situated in a country or zone free from American foulbrood; or 2) the shipment comprises only honey bees without associated brood combs and: a) the honey bees come from apiaries meeting the conditions prescribed in Article 4.15.5.; and b) the apiaries where the honey bees come from are situated in the centre of an area with a radius of 3 kilometres where there has been no outbreak of American foulbrood during the past 30 days.
Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the commodities: 1) come from apiaries situated in a country or zone free from American foulbrood; or 2) have been isolated from queens in a quarantine station , and all workers which accompanied the queen or a representative sample of larvae were examined for the presence of P. larvae by bacterial culture or PCR in accordance with the Terrestrial Manual.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the poultry showed no clinical signs of avian influenza on the day of shipment; 2) the poultry originated from a country, zone or compartment free from high pathogenicity avian influenza; 3) the poultry originated from a flock that was monitored for avian influenza viruses and was found to be negative; 4) the poultry are transported in new or appropriately sanitised containers. If the poultry have been vaccinated against avian influenza viruses, the nature of the vaccine used and the date of vaccination should be stated in the international veterinary certificate.
Recommendations for the importation of live birds other than poultry Regardless of the high pathogenicity avian influenza status of the country of origin, Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) on the day of shipment, the birds showed no clinical signs of avian influenza; 2) the birds had been kept in isolation facilities approved by the Veterinary Services since they were hatched or for at least 28 days (i.e. two flock-level incubation periods) prior to shipment and showed no clinical signs of avian influenza during the isolation period; 3) a statistically appropriate sample of the birds was subjected, with negative results, to a diagnostic test for avian influenza within 14 days prior to shipment; 4) the birds are transported in new or appropriately sanitised containers. If the birds have been vaccinated against avian influenza, the nature of the vaccine used and the date of vaccination should be stated in the international veterinary certificate.
Regardless of the high pathogenicity avian influenza status of the country of origin, Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) on the day of shipment, the birds showed no clinical signs of avian influenza; 2) the birds were hatched and kept in isolation facilities approved by the Veterinary Services; 3) a statistically appropriate sample of the parent flock birds were subjected, with negative results, to a diagnostic test for avian influenza at the time of collection of the eggs; 4) the birds were transported in new or appropriately sanitised containers. If the birds or parent flocks have been vaccinated against avian influenza, the nature of the vaccine used and the date of vaccination should be stated in the international veterinary certificate.
For hatching eggs of poultry Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the hatching eggs came from a country, zone or compartment free from high pathogenicity avian influenza; 2) a) the hatching eggs were derived from parent flocks that were monitored for avian influenza viruses and were found to be negative at the time of collection of the hatching eggs; or b) the hatching eggs have had their surfaces sanitised in accordance with point 4 d) of Article 6.5.5.; 3) the hatching eggs are transported in new or appropriately sanitised packaging materials and containers. If the parent flocks have been vaccinated against avian influenza, the nature of the vaccine used and the date of vaccination should be stated in the international veterinary certificate.
Regardless of the high pathogenicity avian influenza status of the country of origin, Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) a statistically appropriate sample of the parent flock birds was subjected, with negative results, to a diagnostic test for avian influenza 14 days prior to and at the time of collection of the hatching eggs; 2) the hatching eggs have had their surfaces sanitised in accordance with point 4 d) of Article 6.5.5.; 3) the hatching eggs are transported in new or appropriately sanitised packaging materials and containers. If the parent flocks have been vaccinated against avian influenza, the nature of the vaccine used and the date of vaccination should be stated in the international veterinary certificate.
For poultry semen Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the donor poultry: 1) showed no clinical signs of avian influenza on the day of semen collection;
Recommendations for the importation of semen from birds other than poultry Regardless of the high pathogenicity avian influenza status of the country of origin, Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the donor birds: 1) were kept in isolation facilities approved by the Veterinary Services for at least 28 days (i.e. two flock-level incubation periods) prior to semen collection; 2) showed no clinical signs of avian influenza during the isolation period; 3) were subjected, with negative results, to a diagnostic test for avian influenza within 14 days prior to semen collection.
Recommendations for importation from a country, zone or compartment free from high pathogenicity avian influenza For eggs for human consumption Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the eggs for human consumption were produced and packed in a country, zone or compartment free from high pathogenicity avian influenza; 2) the eggs for human consumption were transported in new or appropriately sanitised packaging materials and containers.
Personnel responsible for surveillance should be able to call for assistance from a team with expertise in ND diagnosis and control;
For domestic bovids and water buffaloes Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the animals: 1) showed no clinical sign of CBPP on the day of shipment; 2) were kept in a CBPP free country, zone or compartment since birth or for at least the past six months.
For domestic bovids and water buffaloes for slaughter Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the animals: 1) showed no clinical sign of CBPP on the day of shipment; 2) originate from an establishment where no case of CBPP was officially reported for the past six months; and 3) are transported directly to the slaughterhouse/abattoir in sealed vehicles.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor animals: a) showed no clinical sign of CBPP on the day of collection of the semen; b) were subjected to the complement fixation test for CBPP with negative results, on two occasions, with an interval of not less than 21 days and not more than 30 days between each test, the second test being performed within 14 days prior to collection; c) were isolated from other domestic bovids and water buffaloes from the day of the first complement fixation test until collection; d) were kept since birth, or for the past six months, in an establishment where no case of CBPP was reported during that period, and that the establishment was not situated in a CBPP infected zone; e) AND EITHER: i) have not been vaccinated against CBPP; OR ii) were vaccinated using a vaccine complying with the standards described in the Terrestrial Manual not more than four months prior to collection; in this case, the condition laid down in point b) above is not required; 2) the semen was collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.6. and 4.7.
For in vivo derived or in vitro produced oocytes or embryos of domestic bovids and water buffaloes Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor animals: a) showed no clinical sign of CBPP on the day of collection of the oocytes or embryos; b) were kept in a CBPP free country, zone or compartment since birth or for at least the past six months; 2) the oocytes were fertilised with semen meeting the conditions of Article 11.5.9.; 3) the oocytes or embryos were collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters4.8., 4.9. and 4.10., as relevant.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor animals: a) showed no clinical sign of CBPP on the day of collection of the semen; b) were kept in a CBPP free country, zone or compartment since birth or for at least the past six months; 2) the semen was collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.6. and 4.7.
Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor bull was resident at the time of semen collection in an EBL free herd; and 2) if less than two years of age, the bull came from a serologically negative ‘uterine’ dam; or 3) the bull was subjected to diagnostic tests for EBL on blood samples on two occasions with negative results, the first test being carried out at least 30days before and the second test at least 90days after collection of the semen; 4) the semen was collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.6. and 4.7.
A zone may be considered free from the disease if it can be established that HS has not been present for at least the past three years and if the following conditions are met: 1) the disease is notifiable in the whole country; 2) the zone shall be delineated by natural or artificial barriers; 3) the introduction of animals into the zone shall be carried out in accordance with Article 11.7.6. or Article 11.7.7.
Veterinary Authorities of HS free countries may prohibit importation or transit through their territory, from countries considered infected with HS, of cattle and buffaloes.
Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the animals: 1) showed no clinical sign of IBR/IPV on the day of shipment; 2) were vaccinated with an inactivated virus vaccine not less than one month and not more than six months prior to shipment.
Recommendations for the importation of fresh semen Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor animals were kept in an IBR/IPV free herd at the time of collection of the semen; 2) the semen was collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.6. and 4.7.
Recommendations for the importation of frozen semen Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor animals were kept in an IBR/IPV free herd at the time of collection of the semen; or 2) the donor animals were held in isolation during the period of collection and for the 30days following collection and were subjected to a diagnostic test for IBR/IPV on a blood sample taken at least 21 days after collection of the semen, with negative results; or 3) if the serological status of the bull is unknown or if the bull is serologically positive, an aliquot of each semen collection was subjected to a virus isolation test or PCR, performed in accordance with the Terrestrial Manual, with negative results; and 4) the semen was collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.6. and 4.7.
When authorising import or transit of the following commodities, Veterinary Authorities should not require any LSD-related conditions regardless of the status of the animal population of the exporting country: 1) skeletal muscle meat; 2) casings; 3) gelatine and collagen; 4) tallow; 5) hooves and horns.
A country or zone free from LSD will not lose its status as a result of introduction of seropositive or vaccinated bovines or water buffaloes or their commodities, provided they were introduced in accordance with this chapter.
For bovines and water buffaloes Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the animals: 1) showed no clinical sign of LSD on the day of shipment; 2) come from a country or zone free from LSD.
For bovines and water buffaloes Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the animals: 1) showed no clinical sign of LSD on the day of shipment; 2) were kept since birth, or for the past 60 days prior to shipment, in an epidemiological unit where no case of LSD occurred during that period; 3) were vaccinated against LSD according to manufacturer's instructions between 60 days and one year prior to shipment; 4) were demonstrated to have antibodies at least 30 days after vaccination; 5) were kept in a quarantine station for the 28 days prior to shipment during which time they were subjected to an agent identification test with negative results.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor animals: a) showed no clinical sign of LSD on the day of collection; b) were kept in a free country or zone for at least 28 days prior to collection; 2) the semen was collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.6. and 4.7.
Recommendations for importation from countries or zones not free from LSD For semen of bovines and water buffaloes Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor males: a) showed no clinical sign of LSD on the day of collection and the following 28 days; b) were kept for the 60 days prior to collection in a semen collection centre where no case of LSD occurred during that period; c) EITHER: i) were vaccinated regularly against LSD according to manufacturer's instructions, the first vaccination being administrated at least 60 days prior to the first semen collection; and ii) were demonstrated to have antibodies against LSDV at least 30 days after vaccination; OR iii) were subjected to a serological test to detect antibodies specific to LSDV, with negative results, at least every 28 days throughout the collection period and one test 21 days after the final collection for this consignment; and iv) were subjected to agent detection by PCR conducted on blood samples collected at commencement and conclusion of, and at least every 28 days during, semen collection for this consignment, with negative results; 2) the semen to be exported was subjected to agent detection by PCR; 3) the semen was collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.6. and 4.7.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor females: a) showed no clinical sign of LSD on the day of collection of the embryos; b) kept for at least 28 days prior to collection in a free country or zone; 2) the embryos were collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.8., 4.9. and 4.10., as relevant; 3) the semen used for the production of the embryos complied with Articles 11.9.7. and 11.9.8., as relevant.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor females: a) showed no clinical sign of LSD on the day of collection and the following 28 days; b) were kept in an establishment where no case of LSD occurred during the 60 days prior to collection; c) EITHER: i) were vaccinated regularly against LSD according to manufacturer's instructions, the first vaccination being administrated at least 60 days prior to the first collection; and ii) were demonstrated to have antibodies against LSDV at least 30 days after vaccination; OR iii) were subjected to a serological test to detect antibodies specific to LSDV, with negative results, on the day of collection and at least 21 days after collection; d) were subjected to agent detection by PCR with negative results on a blood sample on the day of collection; 2) the semen used for the production of the embryos complied with Articles 11.9.7. and 11.9.8., as relevant; 3) the embryos were collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.8., 4.9. and 4.10.
Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the milk or the milk products: 1) have been derived from animals in a country or zone free from LSD; OR 2) were subjected to pasteurisation or any combination of control measures with equivalent performance as described in the Codex Alimentarius Code of Hygienic Practice for Milk and Milk Products.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting: 1) that these products were derived from animals in a country or zone free from LSD; or 2) that a) the products were processed using heat treatment to a minimum internal temperature of 65°C for at least 30 minutes; b) the necessary precautions were taken after processing to avoid contact of the commodities with any potential source of LSDV.
2) whether EI is notifiable in the whole country, an ongoing EI awareness programme is in place, and all notified suspect occurrences of EI are subjected to field and, where applicable, laboratory investigations; 3) appropriate surveillance is in place to demonstrate the presence of infection in the absence of clinical signs in domestic and captive wild equids.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the domestic or captive wild equids showed no clinical sign of EI on the day of shipment.
When authorising importation or transit of the following commodities, Veterinary Authorities should not require any conditions related to infection with T. equi or B. caballi, regardless of the animal health status of the exporting country or zone: 1) milk and milk products; 2) meat and meat products;
For non-treated pelts Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the pelts come from rabbits which had been kept in a country free from RHD for at least 60 days before slaughter.
that: 1) the animals showed no clinical sign of ovine epididymitis on the day of shipment; 2) the animals come from a sheep flock free from ovine epididymitis; 3) for sheep over six months of age, the animals were isolated in the establishment of origin for the 30 days prior to shipment and were subjected to the diagnostic tests for Brucella ovis (B. ovis) with negative results; or 4) for sheep from a flock other than that stated in point2 above, the animals were isolated prior to shipment and were subjected to the diagnostic tests for B. ovis with negative results on two occasions, with an interval of 30 to 60 days between each test, the second test being performed during the 15 days prior to shipment.
A Member Country may, on a voluntary basis, apply for endorsement of its official control programme for PPR in accordance with Chapter 1.6., when it has implemented measures in accordance with this article.
Personnel responsible for surveillance should be able to seek expertise in ASF diagnosis, epidemiological evaluation and control; b) conduct, when relevant, regular and frequent clinical inspections and laboratory testing of high-risk groups (for example, where swill feeding is practised), or those adjacent to an ASF infected country or zone (for example, bordering areas where infected wild and feral pigs or African wild suids are present).
When authorising import or transit of the following commodities, Veterinary Authorities should not require any CSF-related conditions, regardless of the CSF status of the exporting country or zone: 1) meat in a hermetically sealed container with an F0 value of 3 or above; 2) gelatine. Other pig commodities can be traded safely if in accordance with the relevant articles of this chapter.
The CSF free status of the country or zone will be reinstated only after the submitted evidence has been accepted by WOAH.
Any other products obtained from the pigs, and any products coming into contact with them, should be considered contaminated and treated in accordance with Article 15.2.22. or Articles 15.2.24. to 15.2.26. to destroy any CSFV potentially present.
For domestic and captive wild pigs Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the pigs: 1) showed no clinical sign of CSF on the day of shipment; 2) and either: a) were kept since birth or for the past three months in a CSF free compartment; or b) were isolated for 28 days prior to shipment in a quarantine station, and were subjected to a virological test and a serological test performed on a sample collected at least 21 days after entry into the quarantine station, with negative results; 3) were not vaccinated against CSF, nor are they the progeny of vaccinated sows, unless there are means, validated in accordance with Chapter 3.8.3. of the Terrestrial Manual, of distinguishing between vaccinated and infected pigs.
For semen of domestic and captive wild pigs Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor males: a) were kept since birth or for at least three months prior to collection of the semen in a country, zone or compartment free from CSF; b) showed no clinical sign of CSF on the day of collection; 2) the semen was collected, processed and stored in accordance with the provisions of Chapters 4.6. and 4.7.
When authorising import or transit of the following commodities and any products made from these commodities and containing no other tissues from pigs, Veterinary Authorities should not require any PRRS-related conditions, regardless of the PRRS status of the exporting country, zone or compartment: 1) hides, skins and trophies; 2) bristles; 3) meat products; 4) protein meal; 5) blood-products; 6) casings; 7) gelatine.
The sampling scheme should be designed to ensure that all donor males are tested every 12 months and at least once during their stay; OR ii) have been kept in a semen collection centre where all donor males were subjected to serological and virological examinations for infection with PRRSV, with negative results, on serum samples taken on the day of collection; 2) the semen was collected, processed and stored in accordance with the relevant articles in Chapters 4.6. and 4.7.
When authorising import or transit of the following commodities of pigs, Veterinary Authorities should not require any T. solium-related conditions regardless of the status of the animal population of the exporting country: 1) processed fat; 2) casings; 3) semi-processed skins which have been submitted to the usual chemical and mechanical processes in use in the tanning industry; 4) bristles, hooves and bones; 5) semen, oocytes and embryos.
The reduction of ethyl carbamate could be achieved using two different approaches: first, by reducing the concentration of the main precursor substances (e.g. hydrocyanic acid and cyanides); second, by reducing the tendency of these substances to react to form cyanate.
Food additives listed in Tables 1 and 2 of the Codex General Standard for Food Additives (CODEX STAN 192-1995) in Food Category 12.1.1 (Salt) may be used in foods subject to this standard.
It is recommended that the products covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the Recommended International Code of Practice – General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969), and other relevant Codex texts such as Codes of Hygienic Practice and Codes of Practice.
For the fortification of food grade salt with iodine, use can be made of sodium and potassium iodides or iodates.
However, lot identification and the name and address of the manufacturer or packer may be replaced by an identification mark, provided that such mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents.
Alternatively, EuSalt/AS 015-2007 “Determination of Elements Emission Spectrometric Method (ICP-OES)” or EuSalt/ AS 018-2005 "Determination of Anions High Performance Ion Chromatography (HPIC) may be used.”
Alternatively, EuSalt/AS 009-2005 “Determination of Calcium and Magnesium Flame Atomic Absorption Spectrometric Method” or EuSalt/ AS 015-2007 "Determination of Elements Emission Spectrometric Method (ICP-OES) may be used.
Alternatively, EuSalt/AS 015-2007 "Determination of Elements Emission Spectrometric Method (ICP-OES) may be used.
Alternatively, EuSalt/AS 015 -2007 "Determination of Elements Emission Spectrometric Method (ICP -OES) may be used.
World Health Organization, Geneva, 2007" or EuSalt/AS 019 -2009 “Determination of Total Bromine and Iodine Emission Spectrometric Method (ICP-OES)” may be used.
Alternatively EuSalt/ AS 015-2007 "Determination of Elements Emission Spectrometric Method (ICP-OES) may be used.
According to EuSalt/AS 015-2007 "Determination of Elements Emission Spectrometric Method” (ICP-OES) may be used.
The addition of salt substitutes conforming to sub-section 3.2 to a special dietary food with low sodium content is permitted and shall be limited by good manufacturing practice.
Competent national and/or regional authorities may also consult FAO/WHO publications for further guidance on the addition of essential nutrients.
is when food manufacturers choose to add specified essential nutrients to particular foods or food categories as explained in footnote 4.
Competent national and/or regional authorities may request scientific rationale and evidence demonstrating fulfillment of one or more of the purposes listed above.
The maximum amounts mentioned above may be set taking into account a) upper levels of intake (UL) of essential nutr ients established by scientific risk assessment based on generally accepted scientific data; b) the daily intake of essential nutrients from all sources. When the maximum levels are set, due account may be taken of the daily intake reference values of essential nutrients for the population.
This decision may be based on severity and extent of public health need as demonstrated by generally accepted scientific evidence.
While most addition to address a serious public health need is through mandatory nutrient addition, there may be some situations where a conditional voluntary approach may be used.
Dried nutmeg may be offered in one of the following styles:
Anticaking agents listed in Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)1 are acceptable for use in the powdered form of the foods conforming to this standard.
Competent authorities may choose approaches other than those described in these guidelines when considering how to take into account vTPA programmes information/data in their risk-based targeting of regulatory controls.
Competent authorities retain discretion whether and how to consider information/data from vTPA programmes in their regulatory oversight, inspection and control framework, planning and decision -making process.
Competent authorities may compare relevant regulatory audit data with that generated by the vTPA audits to verify consistency and reliability.
g. vTPA programme information/data indicating a trend could be used to target specific interventions such as focused inspections, targeted sampling and testing, or national training/information programs where the vTPA programme information/data helps identify a systemic issue.
All edible fungi permitted for sale by the competent authorities in the consuming countries.
Any other presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that the product: (a) is sufficiently distinctive from other forms of presentation laid down in this standard; (b) meets all relevant requirements of this standard, including requirements relating to limitations on defects, drained weight, and any other requirements in this standard which are applicable to that style in the standard which most closely resembles the style, or styles intended to be provided for under this provision; and (c) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
This can be demonstrated by conforming to the applicable specifications of identity and purity recommended by the Codex Alimentarius Commission or, in the absence of such a specification, with an appropriate specification developed by responsible national or international bodies or suppliers.
Further information on labelling texts, or any other aspect of the Codex Alimentarius Commission, may be obtained from: The Secretary, Codex Alimentarius Commission, Joint FAO/WHO Food Standards Programme, FAO, Viale delle Terme di Caracalla, 00153, Rome Italy fax: +39(06)57.05.45.93 email: codex@fao.org Internet address: http://www.codexalimentarius.net
Food additives in this Table can be used to perform the function indicated in the specified food products.
Only approved in so far as their use is legally required in the food products in which they are incorporated.
By derogation of the provisions of paragraphs 4.1 (a) and 4.2 (a), the competent authority may, with regard to the provisions on livestock production at Annex 1, provide for more detailed rules as well as for derogations for implementation periods in order to permit gradual development of organic farming practices.
Livestock existing on the livestock production unit, but not complying with these Guidelines, may be converted.
The competent authority may set the specific conditions under which livestock from non-organic sources may be allowed or not allowed, taking into account that animals be brought in as young as possible as soon as they are weaned.
a) where specific disease or health problems occur, or may occur, and no alternative permitted treatment or management practice exists, or, in cases required by law, vaccination of livestock, the use of parasiticides, or therapeutic use of veterinary drugs are permitted; b) phytotherapeutic (excluding antibiotics), homeopathic or ayurvedic products and trace elements shall be used in preference to chemical allopathic veterinary drugs or antibiotics, provided that their therapeutic effect is effective for the species of animal and the condition for which the treatment is intended; c) if the use of the above products is unlikely to be effective in combating illness or injury, chemical allopathic veterinary drugs or antibiotics may be used under the responsibility of a veterinarian; withholding periods should be the double of that required by legislation with, in any case, a minimum of 48 hours; d) the use of chemical allopathic veterinary drugs or antibiotics for preventative treatments is prohibited.
The official certification body or authority may designate a specific radius from the hive within which the bees have access to adequate and sufficient nutrition that meets the requirements of these Guidelines.
The practice of destroying the male brood is permitted only to contain infestation with Varroa jacobsoni.
Ethylene may be used for ripening of kiwifruit and bananas.
Calcium chloride solution Leaf treatment in case of proven calcium deficiency.
Where a packing medium is used, it may consist of: (a) water – in which water is the sole packing medium; (b) water which may have one or more of t he following nutritive sweeteners as defined by the Codex Alimentarius Commission added: sucrose, invert sugar syrup, dextrose, dried glucose syrup, glucose syrup, fructose, fructose syrup, honey.
(b) Brokenii – small pieces which may not be uniform in size and/or shape.
Any other presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that it: (a) is sufficiently distinctive from other forms of presentation laid down in this standard; (b) meets all other requirements of this standard; and (c) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
Firming agents used in accordance with Table 1 and Table 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)1 in food category 04.2.2.4 (Canned or bottled (pasteurized) or retort pouch vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), and seaweeds or listed in Table 3 of the general standard1 are acceptable for use for foods conforming to this standard.
“Packaged waters”, other than natural mineral waters, are waters for human consumption and may contain minerals, naturally occurring or intentionally added; may contain carbon dioxide, naturally occurring or intentionally added; but shall not contain sugars, sweeteners, flavourings or other foodstuffs.
They may originate from any type of water supply.
• reduction and/or elimination of dissolved gases (and resulting possible change in pH); • addition of carbon dioxide (and resulting change in pH) or re-incorporation of the original carbon dioxide present at emergence; • reduction and/or elimination of unstable constituents such as iron, manganese, sulphur (as S 0 or S--) compounds and carbonates in excess, under normal conditions of temperature and pressure, of the calco-carbonate equilibrium; • addition of air, oxygen or ozone on condition that the concentration of by-products resulting from the ozone treatment is below the tolerance established under Section 3.2.1; • decrease and/or increase in temperature; • reduction and/or separation of elements originally present in excess of maximum concentrations or of maximum levels of radioactivity set according to Section 3.2.1.
Prepared waters can be subjected to any microbial treatments and any treatments that modify the physical and chemical characteristics of the original water on condition that such treatments result in prepared waters that comply with all provisions of Section 3.2 and 4 regarding the chemical, microbiological and radiological safety requirements for prepackaged waters.
It is recommended that all waters covered by the provisions of this Standard be collected, transported, stored, and if applicable treated, and packaged in accordance with the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1991) and in accordance with the Code of Hygienic Practice for Bottled/Packaged Drinking Waters (Other than Natural Mineral Waters) (CXC 48-2001).
Antimicrobial treatments may be used singly or in combination solely in order to conserve the original microbiological fitness for human consumption, original purity and safety of waters defined by origin.
Any appropriate name (or names) to designate prepared waters described under Section 2.1.2 and that meet additional criteria established by each country including restricting the name of such water to certain names or only one name.
With regard to waters defined by origin, the chemical composition that confers the characteristics to the product may also be declared on the label.
(a) For canned grapefruit canned mandarin oranges, canned sweet orange varieties and canned pummelo: A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Sections 2.4 and 3.2 when the number of 4defectives2, as defined in Section 3.3, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an acceptable quality level (AQL) of 6.5. (b) For canned mandarin oranges: The lot must comply with requirements of Section 3.2.6(b) which are based on sample average.
Acidity regulators and firming agents used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard of Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)5 in food category 04.1.2.4 (Canned or bottled (pasteurized) fruit) or listed in Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives5 are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this standard.
While not useful for quantification, some analysts may wish to calculate the limit of detection (LOD) (S/N = 3) to infer the presence of the analyte at concentrations too low to permit an estimate of analyte concentration.
One possibility is to calculate MU from proficiency test data 6.
Screening methods can take advantage of a structural feature common to a group or class of compounds and may be based on immunoassays or spectrophotometric responses which may not unambiguously identify a compound.
Inter-laboratory testing may also be performed.
The final products may be sticky and can be further processed into various forms of products.
The final product, Cheonggukjang, which complies with the component requirement may be presented in the forms of powder, paste and spherical pellet.
The final product, Thua Nao, which complies with the component requirement may be presented in paste or dried forms, e.g. powder, sheet, and pellet.
Other names may be used in accordance with the law and custom of the country of retail sale in the manner not to mislead consumers.
Grapefruits meeting the minimum requirements as regards ripeness may be “degreened”, on condition that this treatment does not modify other organoleptic characteristics.
The following defects, however, may be allowed, provided the grapefruits retain their essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation: - defects in shape; - defects in colouring; - defects skin from healed superficial wounds on the skin; - healed defects due to mechanical causes, such as impact of hail, rubbing, damage from handling; - slight skin discolouration due to rust mite, melanoses, and other blemishes not exceeding more than two-fifths of the surface of the fruit; - rough skin. The defects must not, in any case, affect the pulp of the fruit.
This form of presentation is mandatory for the “Extra” Class and optional for Classes I and II.
These types of presentation are only allowed for Classes I and II.
This form of presentation is only allowed for Class II.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package should be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type.
The indication 1pink2 or 1red2 where appropriate.
The users of this document are encouraged to implement the guidelines contained in the HACCP Annex when designing a HACCP system.
However, dirty eggs may be used for table eggs if permitted by the relevant authorities, in accordance with country requirements, and if cleaned appropriately.
In addition to the styles defi ned in the corresponding annexes, any other styles should be permitted as indicated in Section 2.2.1.
The name “hearts of palm/palmito” may be complemented by the common name of the palm used.
Packing media may contain ingredients subject to labelling requirements of Section 8 and may include, but is not limited to: (1) sugars and/or other foodstuffs with sweetening properties such as honey; (2) aromatics plants, spices or extracts thereof, seasoning; (3) vinegar; (4) regular or concentrated fruit juice; (5) oil; and (6) tomato puree.
(6) Cut asparagus without tips: the occasional presence of tips is allowed.
10 In addition to the provisions for packing media in Section 3.1.3 of the Codex standard for certain canned vegetables (CXS 297-2009), the following packing media may apply:
For styles in general, 10 percent, by count, of the units for the respective style may exceed the specified stem length or size.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: - slight defects in shape; - slight defects in colouring, including sun spots; - slight skin defects (i.e., scratches, scars, scrapes and blemishes) not exceeding 4% of the total surface area. The defects must not, in any case, affect the pulp of the fruit. The crown, if present, shall be simple and straight or slightly curved with no sprouts, and shall be between 50 and 150% of the length of the fruit for pineapples with trimmed or untrimmed3 crowns.
Tolerances in respect of quality and size shall be allowed in each inspection lot for produce not satisfying the requirements of the class indicated.
Additionally, acidity regulators, colours, flavour enhancers, preservatives, sweeteners and thickeners listed in Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) are acceptable for use in food conforming to this standard.
The fruit should be green but may show discolouring (yellow patches) up to 30% of its surface.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: - slight defects in shape; - slight defects in colouring; - slight skin defects not exceeding more than 1.0 cm2. The defects must not, in any case, affect the pulp of the fruit.
Notwithstanding Section 2.1 above: halal food can be prepared, processed or stored in different sections or lines within the same premises where non-halal foods are produced, provided that necessary measures are taken to prevent any contact between halal and non-halal foods; halal food can be prepared, processed, transported or stored using facilities which have been previously used for non-halal foods provided that proper cleaning procedures, according to Islamic requirements, have been observed.
halal food can be prepared, processed or stored in different sections or lines within the same premises where non-halal foods are produced, provided that necessary measures are taken to prevent any contact between halal and non-halal foods; halal food can be prepared, processed, transported or stored using facilities which have been previously used for non-halal foods provided that proper cleaning procedures, according to Islamic requirements, have been observed.
halal food can be prepared, processed or stored in different sections or lines within the same premises where non-halal foods are produced, provided that necessary measures are taken to prevent any contact between halal and non-halal foods;
halal food can be prepared, processed, transported or stored using facilities which have been previously used for non-halal foods provided that proper cleaning procedures, according to Islamic requirements, have been observed.
Food additives shall not be described or presented on any label or in any labelling by words, pictorial or other devices which refer to or are suggestive, either directly or indirectly, of any other product with which such food additives might be confused, or in such a manner as to lead the purchaser or consumer to suppose that the food additive is connected with or derived from such other product; provided that the term “x flavour” may be used to describe a flavour which is not derived from, but reproduces the flavour of “x”.
The labels of all food additives sold other than by retail shall bear the information required by sub-sections 5.1 to 5.5 of this section, as applicable to the food additive being labelled; except that, where the food additives in non-retail containers are solely destined for further industrial processing, the required information, other than that described in sections 5.1(a) and 5.1(d), may be given on the documents relating to the sale.
Ingredients for which class names are set out in section 4.2.3.1 in the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1-1985) may be declared by the applicable class name, except for those ingredients that are identified in section 4.2.1.4 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1 -1985) as foods or ingredients that are known to cause hypersensitivity.
This information may be given on the label or in the documents relating to the sale.
If the language on the original label is not acceptable, a supplementary label containing the mandatory information in an acceptable language may be used instead of relabelling.
Any information or pictorial device may be displayed in labelling provided that it is not in conflict with the mandatory requirement nor would mislead or deceive the consumer in any way whatsoever in respect of the food additive.
This COP provides guidance on recommended practices to prevent and reduce Cd contamination in cocoa beans before planting, for new or existing cocoa tree plantations and during the production stage through the harvest and postharvest phases.
Addition of Zn sulphate through fertilization also may be needed to ensure Zn levels are maintained.
However, in order to provide clarity in trade of crude oils, t he values of the table may also be applied for the corresponding crude forms of the vegetable oils described in Section 2.1" instead of "Fractionated product from palm oil".
However, in order to provide clarity in trade of crude oils, the values of the table may also be applied for the corresponding crude forms of the vegetable oils described in Section 2.1. ND – non detectable, defined as ≤ 0.05%
However, in order to provide clarity in trade of crude oils, the values of the table may also be applied for the corresponding crude forms of the vegetable oils described in Section 2.1. ND – Non detectable.
Dried or dehydrated ginger may be: whole: single or branched rhizomes of varying sizes, which may be cut at both ends with the flattened circular shape intact; pieces: comprising various cut, diced or sliced styles; and ground/powdered.
8.4 Labelling of non-retail containers The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers in Foods (CXS 346-2021).9
8.2.1 The common name of the product shall be as described in Section 2.1. 8.2.2 The name of the product may include an indication of the style as described in Section 2.2. 8.2.3 Trade name, variety or cultivar may be listed on the label.
8.3.2 Country of harvest (optional). 8.3.3 Region of harvest and year of harvest (optional).
The following optional ingredients can be used:
4.1 Only acidity regulators and emulsifiers listed in Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CODEX STAN 192-1995) are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this Standard.
Flavourings are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this Standard when used in accordance with good manufacturing practices and in compliance with the Codex Guidelines for the Use of Flavourings (CAC/GL 66-2008).
Industrial repacking or further industrial processing of intermediate quick frozen material under controlled conditions which maintains the quality of the product, followed by the re-application of the quick freezing process, is permitted.
Any presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that it: meets all the requirements of the standard, and is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
– Starter cultures of harmless lactic acid and/ or flavour producing bacteria and cultures of other harmless micro-organisms; – Rennet or other safe and suitable coagulating enzymes; – Sodium chloride; and potassium chloride as a salt substitute; – Potable water; – Safe and suitable enzymes to enhance the ripening process; – Safe and suitable processing aids; – Rice, corn and potato flours and starches: Notwithstanding the provisions in the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978), these substances can be used in the same function as anti -caking agents for treatment of the surface of cut, sliced, and shredded products only, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by Good Manufacturing Practi ce, taking into account any use of the anti-caking agents listed in Section 4.
The Codex Alimentarius Commission’s recommended sampling procedures for residues of veterinary drugs in food are exempted from the general sampling procedures of food commodities developed by the Codex
Competent Authorities may routinely retain lots of production where it is considered likely that a risk targeted test will produce non -compliant results that present a potential risk for consumer health.
In the case of proven negligence or intent punitive measures in line with the Codex member’s penal system should be considered (e.g. condemnations, fines, movement controls, etc.) to act as a deterrent.
Specific exemptions may be made for off-label/extra label use.
Producers should be able to identify all food-producing animals, or lots of these animals, which have been treated with or exposed to veterinary drugs to ensure compliance with withdrawal/withholding times.
Verification programmes may contribute to the: (a) Verification of assumptions made in the registration process; (b) Identification of unacceptable production, marketing and/or chains of advice; (c) Evaluation of the effectiveness of veterinary drug label information as it relates to food safety; (d) Evaluation of the effectiveness of education or risk reduction programmes; (e) Evaluation of Quality Management Systems; (f) Verification of implementation and effectiveness of corrective actions.
Competent Authorities may complement the risk-targeted pre-harvest verification programmes with established risk-targeted post-harvest verification programmes.
Surveys may be performed to: (a) Assess the initial situation before a verification programme is started; (b) Evaluate the efficiency and appropriateness of specific aspects of control programmes; (c) Monitor the impact that variables, such as location, season, or age, may have on the presence, absence or concentration of a residue.
The establishment of quality measures consistent with the principles published by IUPAC is recommended for regulatory control laboratories.
Examples of analytical techniques which may be suitable to meet criteria for confirmatory analytical methods are summarized in Table 3.
Internal standards can greatly enhance method performance when used properly.
Alternative protocols may be used for validation of MRMs, adapted as necessary for individual circumstances.
Approval systems should take into account that risk profiles and management options may vary substantially among production systems and regions.
To mitigate potential risk, restrictions may be imposed on: (a) Formulations; (b) Criteria of use (e.g. time, species) and route of administration; (c) Indications for use; and (d) Withdrawal time/withholding time/food harvest restriction.
Appropriate regulatory action may then be taken against adulterated products, consistent with the reliability of the analytical data.
These methods may be used for the analysis of randomly selected survey samples in a national regulatory control programme to determine compliance with established MRLVDs, for the analysis of
In certain situations, Competent Authorities may also use biological fluids such as urine or serum to indicate the presence or absence of residues of interest.
Further information may be obtained from published documents3,4.
The assessment of the random and systematic errors of the results based on the measurements of multiple peaks is explained in detail in a recent publication6.
Anticaking agents listed in Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)1 are acceptable for use in powdered form of the foods conforming to this standard.
8.2.3 The name of the product may include an indication of the trade name and varietal type described in Table 1 and style as described in Section 2.2.
8.3.3 Region of harvest and year of harvest (optional).
The rapid risk analysis approach allows for prioritization of only those instances where further in-depth investigations are warranted.
Tomatoes of distinct varietal groups (cultivars open pollinated or hybrids) with respect to shape or other similar physical characteristics may be designated as:
Any other presentation of the product should be permitted provided that the product: a) is sufficiently distinctive from other forms of presentation laid down in the standard; b) meets all relevant requirements of the standard, including requirements relating to limitations on defects, drained weight, and any other requirements which are applicable to that style which most closely resembles the style or styles intended to be provided for under this provision; and c) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
a) spices, aromatic herbs (such as basil leaves) and natural extracts of these and seasonings excluding tomato flavouring; b) salt (sodium chloride) in accordance with the Standard for Food Grade Salt (CXS 150-1985);2 or c) when acidifying agents are used, sugars, as listed in the Standard for Sugars (CXS 212-1999)3 with specific labelling.
Firming agents listed in Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)4 and certain other Table 3 food additives (as indicated in Table 3) are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this standard.
Refer to the Recommended International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969).
Another approach can also be used (see Section 4.3).
Alternatively, a post-packaging listericidal treatment may be necessary ( e.g. heating, high pressure treatment, irradiation, where accepted).
Alternatively, strict control of temperature so that ready-to-eat foods never exceed 6°C (preferably 2°C- 4°C) and/or shortening the duration of the product refrigerated/chilled shelf life are other means for assuring that growth to any significant degree does not occur before the product is consumed.
The guidelines also provide information that will be of interest to the food industry, consumers, and other interested parties.
Analysis of raw material for L. monocytogenes can be, where appropriate, an important tool for validating and verifying that the control measures at the primary production level are adequately limiting the frequency and level of contamination to that needed to achieve the required level of control during subsequent manufacturing.
For example sponges may be used for large flat surfaces, swabs may be more appropriate for cracks and crevices or scrapers for hard residues.
Fingerprinting isolates by one or more of the available genetic techniques (e.g., pulsed field gel electrophoresis, ribotyping) can provide very useful information about the source(s) of L. monocytogenes and pathway(s) that lead to contamination of the food.
It can also reveal low level, intermittent contamination that may otherwise go unnoticed.
This could range from no action (no risk of recontamination), to intensified cleaning, to source tracing (increased environmental testing), to review of hygienic practices up to holding and testing of product.
Another procedure for establishing microbiological criteria for L. monocytogenes other than the criteria at specified points in the food chain that are described below, would be through the application of risk-based metrics (e.g., Food Safety Objective (FSO), Performance Objective (PO)) according to the general principles established in the Annex II: Guidance on Microbiological Risk Management Metrics of the Principles and Guidelines for the Conduct of Microbiological Risk Management (CAC/GL 63-2007).
It may also be useful to establish an appropriate planting density to further discourage weed proliferation during plant development.
Flexibility in the application of certain requirements of the primary production of spices can be exercised, where necessary, provided that the product will be subjected to control measures sufficient to obtain a safe product.
This information may be very useful for explaining the cause(s) of fungal growth and mycotoxin formation during a particular crop year and may help to avoid similar conditions in the future.
This consumer information may include tips for good use to avoid mould growth by avoiding contact with wet utensils and wooden spoons, closing containers tightly immediately after use, avoiding unnecessary stockpiling and checking the best-before date.
Thawing time and temperature parameters may be a CCP and/or an essential quality provision.
The simulant may also be incorporated into a temperature recording device.
Additionally, the receipt temperature may also be considered an essential quality provision.
However, TIs and TTIs may be used on the outside of cartons or pallets to detect temperature abuse during distribution from cold stores to holding stores at retail, and they can monitor transfer of quick frozen foods where monitoring records may not be available.
Air temperature monitoring permits: - diagnosis of problems occurring in the system; and - process management using data storage on computers, which can be linked to other operating information such as defrost cycles, door openings, energy consumption and production batch codes.
Direct measurements of product temperature may be undertaken destructively or non-destructively.
Additional approaches to temperature monitoring include: • use of a simulated food product; • use of temperature probes and/or recorders, as appropriate, placed between packages or in a load; • use of a non-contact thermometer; and • use of temperature indicators and time-temperature indicators.
Retail stores with a volume less than 10 m b3 can be equipped with only a visible thermometer.
The recorder can be placed in the vehicle cabin or mounted on the outside , usually near the refrigeration controls.
Such recorders may be programmed and the measurements retrieved by means of computerized devices.
Any presentation of the product shall be permitted, provided that it meets all requirements of this standard; and is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
It may go through a re -drying process for long -term storage (2 nd dried products).
It may have any following methods; roasting, stir -/deep-frying, treating with edible oil, etc. before or after seasoning.
