For fish, the recommendation could be to prioritize smoking of fish with skin; d) The microbiological quality after processing; e) The organoleptic properties of the final food.
They can also produce smoke-flavoured products by applying smoke condensates to foods, such as by spraying, dipping, injecting, or soaking.
However, covered dryers may protect foodstuffs from industrial sources to some extent.
Thereafter, the product can be stored as a liquid at 30 –50% dry matter (corresponding to 2 –3% total nitrogen), or alternatively it may be vacuum dried, spray-dried, or steamed and stored as a solid (97 – 98% dry matter).
For products not covered by the annexes, any style is permitted that meets the provisions of this general standard as indicated in Section 2.2.1.
For products not covered by the annexes, any commercially variety or type suitable for canning may be used.
For products not covered by the annexes, any presentation of the product is permitted provided that the product: (1) is sufficiently distinctive from other forms of presentation laid down in the standard; (2) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer. canned fruit cocktail shall have normal colour except that a slight leaching of colour from the coloured cherries is acceptable and not considered a defect.
For products not covered by the annexes, the food additive classes listed below may be used, and other food additive classes may also be justified based on the characteristics of the fruit used and the overall product.
For products not covered by the annexes, any proportions of fruits for canned mixed fruits other than those specified in the individual annexes should be allowed.
For products not covered by the annexes, specific names of canned mixed fruits should be permitted provided that they are not misleading or confusing to the consumer.
A mixture of the five fruits defined in Section 1.3 of which apples can be substituted for pears.
A mixture of four fruits as described in Section 1.3 except that: (1) cherries may be omitted; or (2) grapes may be omitted.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package:  presence of white, and/or brown and yellow blemishes, that do not exceed 5 percent of the total leaves in the bundle;  presence of broken leaves that do not exceed 10 percent of the total leaves in the bundle; and  presence of split leaves that do not exceed 10 percent of the total leaves in the bundle.
The following defects, however, may be allowed, provided the rambutans retain their essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation:  presence of white, and/or brown and yellow blemishes, that do not exceed 15 percent of the total leaves in the bundle;  presence of broken leaves that do not exceed 20 percent of the total leaves in the bundle; and  presence of split leaves that do not exceed 20 percent of the total leaves in the bundle.
The bundles may be presented in one of the following forms:
It is recommended that the produce covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969),5 the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003),6 and other relevant Codex texts such as codes of hygienic practice and codes of practice.
These ingredients may be chopped, sliced and broken into pieces; and (c) fermented before or after being packaged into appropriate containers to ensure the proper ripening and preservation of the product by lactic acid production at low temperatures.
Relevant current texts include , but are not limited to:
The scope of these principles and guidelines is the use of remote audit and inspection as an optional tool to support the effective delivery of official controls both within a country’s national food control system (NFCS) and the assessment of an exporting country’s NFCS, or a relevant part thereof.
Remote audit or inspection: An audit or inspection when the auditor(s) or inspector(s) is(are) not physically present at the site to be audited or inspected and its(their) activities are undertaken remotely.
Examples of audit or inspection activities that may be conducted remotely, include, but are not restricted to, one or a combination of the following:
Relevant processes for conducting a physical audit or inspection will similarly apply to the remote process, such as sufficient notification of the need and planning for an activity, the scope, the audit criteria, assessment preparations, opening and closing meetings, the provision of feedback and draft reports for comment, and other activities referenced in relevant guidance.
Considerations should include the technology available, the internet coverage, the bandwidth of the internet, wireless connectivity, impeding structural elements of buildings, and the quality of the handling and presenting of information, which are just a few elements that can impact the success of the remote activity.
When such conditions cannot be guaranteed, a physical audit or inspection may be appropriate.
Any presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that it: - meets all requirements of this standard, and - is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
Acidity regulators, antioxidants and preservatives used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) in food category 09.2.5 (Smoked, dried, fermented, and/or salted fish and fish products, including mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms) and its parent food cate gories are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this Standard.
However lot identification, and the name and address may be replaced by an identification mark, provided that such a mark is clearly identifiable with accompanying documents.
- e.g. freezing to - 20ºC for not less than 24 h in all parts of the product - the adequate combination of salt content and storage time (To be elaborated) - or by other processes with the equivalent effect (To be elaborated)
The following milk products are allowed for protein adjustment purposes: Milk retentate: Milk retentate is the product obtained by concentrating milk protein by ultrafiltration of milk, partly skimmed milk, or skimmed milk; Milk permeate: Milk permeate is the product obtained by removing milk proteins and milk fat from milk, partly skimmed milk or skimmed milk by ultrafiltration; and Lactose1
Acidity regulators, anticaking agents and antioxidants used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) in food category 01.5.2 (Milk and cream powder analogues), and only certain acidity regulators, anticaking agents, emulsifiers and stabilizers in Table 3 are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this Standard.
In relation to the evolution of maturing, the colour may vary according to variety.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: - slight defects in shape; - slight skin defects due to rubbing or sunburn, suberized stains due to resin exudation (elongated trails included) and healed bruises not exceeding 3, 4, 5 cm² for size groups A, B, C respectively.
In Classes I and II, scattered suberized rusty lenticels, as well as yellowing of green varieties due to exposure to direct sunlight, not exceeding 40 % of the surface and not showing any signs of necrosis are allowed.
Five percent by number or weight of mangoes not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class I or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
Ten percent by number or weight of mangoes not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class II or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
Ten percent by number or weight of mangoes satisfying neither the requirements of the class nor the minimum requirements, with the exception of produce affected by rotting, marked bruising or any other deterioration rendering it unfit for consumption.
It is recommended that the produce covered by the provisions o f this Standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the Recommended International Code of Practice – General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1 -1969), Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 53-2003), and other relevant Codex texts such as Codes of Hygienic Practice and Codes of Practice.
This document also provides useful guidance for other interested parties in implementing risk management options, such as industry and consumers who are involved in MRM on a day-to-day basis.
Examples include FAO/WHO Expert Consultation on Risk Management and Food Safety -Paper No 65, Rome 1997, WHO Expert Consultation - The Interaction between Assessors and Managers of Microbial Hazards in Food, Kiel, Germany, March 2000 - The Principles and Guidelines for Incorporating Microbiological Risk Assessment in the Development of Food Safety Standards, Guidelines and Related Texts, Report Kiel, Germany, March 2002 – The Use of Microbiological Risk Assessment Outputs to Develop Practical Risk Management Strategies: Metrics to improve food safety, Kiel, Germany, April 2006.
For instance, a more traditional approach may be selected for small and less developed food businesses, rather than an FSO driven approach.
Implementation can occur at different points in the food/feed chain and may involve more than one segment of the industry and consumers.
Industry associations may find it beneficial to develop and provide guidance documents, training programs, technical bulletins and other information that assists industry to implement control measures.
Consumer organisations can play a significant role in getting this information to consumers.
FSOs may not be universal among all countries and may need to take into account regional differences.
For instance, review can be periodic and/or may also be triggered by other factors such as new scientific insights, changes in public health policy, or changes in the food chain context in which the metrics are applied.
Raw materials, including milk fat, may have been subjected to any appropriate processing (e.g. physical modifications including fractionation) prior to its use.
These substances can be used in the same function as thickeners, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by GMP taking into account any use of the thickeners listed in Section 4.
3.8.2 Products containing honey or maple syrup should be processed in such a way as to destroy spores of Clostridium botulinum, if present. 3.8.3 Only L(+) lactic acid producing cultures may be used.
Rusks and biscuits may be used in the dry form so as to permit and encourage chewing or they may be used in a liquid form, by mixing with water or other suitable liquid that would be similar in consistency to dry cereals.
For solubilized wheat proteins, the following classes of ingredients may be used: (a) carbohydrates, including sugars (b) edible fats and oils (c) other protein products (d) amino acids, vitamins and minerals (e) salt (f) herbs and spices (g) enzymes
In the case of produc ts requiring a declaration of month and year only and the shelf-life of the product is valid to the end of a given year, the expression "end (stated year)" may be used as an alternative.
Any suitable variety of raspberry may be used.
"Lightly sweetened (name of fruit) juice" or "Heavily sweetened (name of fruits) juice(s)" or "Lightly sweetened fruit juices" or "Heavily sweetened mixed fruit juice(s)" as may be appropriate.
"Light syrup" or "Heavy syrup" or "Water slightly sweetened" or "Slightly sweetened water" or "Extra light syrup" or "Extra heavy syrup" as may be appropriate.
"Raspberry juice and water" or "(name of fruit) juice(s) and water".
Tomatoes may be classified into four commercial types: - “Round”; - “Ribbed”; - “Oblong” or “Elongated”; - “Cherry” tomatoes and “Cocktail” tomatoes.
Tomatoes are sized with one of the following options:
Furthermore, “ribbed” tomatoes may show: shallow healed cracks not more than 1 cm long; no excessive protuberances; small umbilicus but not suberization; suberization of the stigma up to 1 cm2; a linear scar no longer than two thirds of the greatest diameter of the fruit.
Furthermore, “ribbed” tomatoes may show: more pronounced protuberances than allowed under Class I, but without being misshapen; one umbilicus; suberization of the stigma up to 2 cm2; fine blossom scar in elongated form (like a seam).
The tomatoes may be presented as follows: (i) as individual tomatoes, with or without calyx and short stalk; (ii) as trusses of tomatoes, in other words, in entire inflorescence or part of inflorescence, where each inflorescence or part of each inflorescence should comprise at least the following number of tomatoes: 3 (2 if prepackaged), or in the case of trusses of “cherry” tomatoes, 6 (4 if prepackaged).
It is recommended that the products covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General principles of food hygiene (CXC 1-1969), and other codes of practice recommended by the CAC which are relevant to these products.
For example, red fruit juice and red beetroot juice may only be added to jams as defined in points 3.1.2 (a) and (b) made from gooseberries, plums, raspberries, redcurrants, rhubarb, rosehips, roselle or strawberries.
In addition, the term “jelly marmalade” as defined in Section 2.1, may be used when the product contains no insoluble matter but may contain small quantities of thinly cut peel.
Within each additive class, only those food additives listed below, or referred to, may be used and only for the functions, and within limits, specified.
In the case of products made with three of more different fruits, the alternative phrase “mixed fruit” or similar wording or by the number of fruits may be used.
Cumin may be offered in one of the following styles: a) whole/intact; b) cracked: broken into two or more pieces; and c) ground: processed into powders.
Anticaking agents as listed in Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)1 may be permitted for use in ground cumin only.
Such fruits may be fresh, frozen or canned; the fruit mixture is packed with water or other suitable liquid packing medium and may be packed with nutritive sweeteners and processed by heat in an appropriate manner before or after being sealed in a container so as to prevent spoilage.
Canned tropical fruit salad may be packed in any one of the following packing media:
(a) water – in which water is the sole packing medium; (b) water and fruit juice – in which water and fruit juice(s) from the specified fruits, is the sole liquid packing medium; (c) fruit juice – in which one or more fruit juice(s) from the specified fruits, which may be strained or filtered, is the sole liquid packing medium; or (d) with sugar(s) – any of the foregoing packing media (a) through (c), may have one or more of the following sugars added: sucrose, invert sugar syrup, dextrose, dried glucose syrup, glucose syrup, fructose and fructose syrup.
When not prohibited in the country of sale, the following packing media may be used: slightly sweetened water } not less than 10 Brix water slightly sweetened } but less than 14 Brix extra light syrup } extra heavy syrup not less than 22 Brix
The annex also provides information that will be of interest to the food industry, consumers, and other interested parties.
Refer to Section 6 (Sanitation) and Section 7 (Personal hygiene) of the main document for aspects of sanitation and personnel hygiene in primary production.
Preferably, use raw ingredients from suppliers or production plants with an adequate food safety management system.
UV irradiation can be effective for the inactivation of viruses on surfaces for food preparation and for the inactivation of viruses in water and aerosols.
Refer to the Introduction section of these guidelines for the incubation and contagious periods of NoV and HAV viruses.
Where feasible and appropriate, checking for HAV immune status of food handlers could be useful.
Poultry may refer to chicken, duck, goose, turkey and other birds, e.g., emu, ostrich, game birds and the chicks thereof.
Dried or dehydrated products may need to be reconstituted prior to analysis.
For all classes, 10% by number or weight of guavas corresponding to the size immediately above or below that indicated on the package.
The Guidelines could also be used when judging the equivalence of different control measures for beef meat in different countries.
This may include notification of “suspect” cohorts of animals sent to the slaughterhouse for application of intensified post mortem inspection procedures.
The competent authority may apply movement control requirements to herds where they judge from monitoring information that this is an appropriate risk-based measure.
Slaughter populations may be regarded as being of low prevalence if the following conditions are met: Slaughterhouse information demonstrating the absence of, or a low prevalence of, suspect cysts in the meat of the slaughtered population over time; or If available, public health data demonstrating that human infection attributable to the domestic slaughter population is absent or very rare;
This system should provide for evaluation of the performance of the selected control measures relative to the level of consumer protection that is sought and may include:  Collection and evaluation of slaughterhouse information as well as related laboratory reports (e.g. histopathology);  Trace back to the farm when suspect cysts are found in the slaughterhouse and application of on-farm controls and more intensive slaughterhouse inspection if required by the competent authority;  Notification of results of intensified inspection to the competent authority;  Involving public health authorities.
Any other presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that the product: (a) is sufficiently distinctive from other forms of presentation laid down in this standard; (b) meets all relevant requirements of this standard, including requirements relating to limitations on defects, drained weight, and any other requirements in this standard which are applicable to that style in the standard which most closely resembles the style or styles intended to be provided for under this provision; (c) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
The use of an effective wind-break (whether natural, such as trees, or a constructed barrier) or protective covering are measures that could be used to reduce pathogen and chemical contamination of the primary production site.
This can be accomplished in a number of ways, including linear product flow.
It is recommended that seed and sprouts or spent irrigation water be tested for the presence of pathogens.
If regulations allow, fungicides may be applied to melons, by aqueous spray or immersion, to extend the post-harvest life of the fruit.
Cooling and cold-storing melons as soon as possible after harvest is recommended to prevent the multiplication of food-borne pathogens, if present, on or from the rind surface of melons.
It is recommended that pre-cut melons should be wrapped/packaged and refrigerated as soon as possible and distributed under refrigeration temperatures (i.e. 5 °C or less).
Documentation and records can enhance the credibility and effectiveness of the food safety control system.
Fish oils may also be subjected to processing steps (e.g. solvent extraction, saponification, re-esterification, trans-esterification).
Supplementary criteria, for example national geographical and/or climatic variations may be considered, as necessary, to confirm that a sample is in compliance with the standard.
It is recommended that the products covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), the Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products (CXC 52-2003), and the Code of Hygienic Practice for the Storage and Transport of Edible Fats and Oils in Bulk (CXC 36-1987).
Each package shall be labelled as to the na me of the produce and type (bitter) and may be labelled as to the name of the variety.
Identification code (optional)7.
The following milk products are allowed for protein adjustment purposes: – milk retentate: Milk retentate is the product obtained by concentrating milk protein by ultrafiltration of milk, partly skimmed milk, or skimmed milk; – milk permeate: Milk permeate is the product obtained by removing milk proteins and milkfat from milk, partly skimmed milk, or skimmed milk by ultrafiltration; and – lactose.iv (also for seeding purposes).
In this product, sugar is generally considered to be sucrose, but a combination of sucrose with other sugars, consistent with good manufacturing practice (GMP), may be used.
Acidity regulators, antifoaming agents, antioxidants, colours, colour retention agents , firming agents, flavour enhancers, preservatives, sequestrants, stabilizers and sweeteners used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard of Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)6 in the food category in which the individual pickled fruit or vegetable fall into (i.e. one of the following categories: 04.1.2.3, 04.1.2.10, 04.2.2.3, and 04.2.2.7) or listed in Table 3 of the General Standard of Food Additives6 are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this standard.
The product shall be “ Cocoa Butter” except that the name “ Press Cocoa Butter” may be used for products in conformity with the description for this product given in Section 2.1.
This annex presents specific guidance for control of STEC related to raw milk intended for drinking and for raw milk cheeses.
Microbiological criteria (refer to the Principles and Guidelines for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria Relat ed to Foods [CXG 21-1997])2 based on process and hygiene indicator microorganisms (e.g. E. coli/Enterobacteriaceae) may also prove a useful tool for validation, monitoring and verification of control measures.
Refer to Section 9.2 of the Code of Hygienic Practice for Meat (CXC 58-2005), the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003), and the Code of Hygienic Practice for Milk and Milk Products (CXC 57-2004).
Refer to Section 9.2 of the Code of Hygienic Practice for Meat (CXC 58-2005),5 the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003),6 the Code of Hygienic Practice for Milk and Milk Products (CXC 57-2004),7 and Section IV of the Guidelines for the Validation of Food Safety Control Measures (CXC 69- 2008).8
Controls may include: When possible, separate lots of animals from different farms, use holding pens of an appropriate size for the number of animals, avoid overpopulation and stress of the animals. Appropriately clean holding pens between lots of cattle. Implement visual inspection and controls, when needed, for soiled animals, transportation vehicles and lairage pens for visible faecal contamination.
Adequate training of the operators on procedures that can minimize stress at this step (which could increase shedding of STEC) is recommended.
Allow an adequate distance between carcasses (i.e. avoid carcass-to-carcass contact), walls and equipment to minimize cross-contamination during processing.
Analysis could also be done during ripening and/or before placing the cheese on the market.
Milled rice (white rice) may be further classified into the following degrees of milling:
Nutrients Vitamins, minerals and specific amino acids may be added in conformity with the legislation of the country in which the product is sold.
Style Quick-frozen raspberries may be presented as free-flowing (i.e. as individual berries not adhering to one another) or non-free-flowing (i.e. as a solid block).
Spices and other optional ingredients may be used.
Any presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that it meets all requirements of this Standard, and it is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
Acidity regulators, colours and preservatives used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192 -1995) in food category 09.2.5 (Smoked, dried, fermented, and/or salted fish and fish products, including mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms) and its parent food categories and only certain Table 3 acidity regulators, antioxidants and packaging gases as indicated in Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192 -1995) are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this Standard.
No additives are permitted in smoke-dried fish.
Countries where the products are to be consumed may allow these products in an uneviscerated state or may require evisceration, either before or after processing, in such a way as to minimise the risk of Clostridium botulinum.
Countries where the product is sold can determine whether the use of regenerated smoke must be indicated on the label.
However, the name and address of the manufacturer or packer may be replaced by an identification mark (e.g. plant approval number) provided that such a mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents.
Methods meeting the following method performance criteria may be used: ML (mg/100g) Minimum applicable range (mg/100 g) LOD (mg/100 g) LOQ (mg/100g) RSDR (%) Recovery Applicable methods that meet the criteria 10 (average) 8 – 12 1 2 16.0 90 – 107 AOAC 977.13 | NMKL 99, 2013 NMKL 196, 2013 20 (each unit) 16 – 24 2 4 14.4 90 – 107 AOAC 977.13 | NMKL 99, 2013 NMKL 196, 2013
Other methods that provide equivalent sensitivity, repr oducibility, and reliability can be employed if they have been appropriately validated (e.g. based on ISO 16140).
This method is not routinely performed on the product, but may be used when there is a suspicion of the presence of toxins.
Examples of freezing processes that may be sufficient to kill some or all parasites are: Freezing at -20ºC at the thermal centre of the product for 24 hours (for Anisakis species and Pseudoterranova decipiens only); Freezing at -35ºC at the thermal centre of the product for 15 hours (all parasites); Freezing at -20ºC at the thermal centre of the product for 168 hours (7 days) (all parasites).
Time/temperature integrators may be a useful tool to determine if the products have been temperature-abused.
Flour treatment agents, carriers and glazing agents used in accordance with Table 1 and Table 2 of the General standard for food additives (CXS 192-1995)1 in food category 06.2.1 (Flours) are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this standard.
The following ingredients may be added to wheat flour in amounts necessary for technological purposes: – malted products with enzymatic activity made from wheat, rye or barley; – vital wheat gluten; and – soybean flour and legume flour.
However, lot identification and the name and address of the manufacturer or packer may be replaced by an identification mark, provided that suc h a mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents.
It includes a number of possible source-directed measures that national authorities can consider.
Adopting technologies to minimize formation and release of dioxins and PCBs from these source categories can be considered by national authorities when developing national measures to reduce dioxins, DL-PCBs and NDL-PCBs.
Other possible sources of PCB contamination in food and feed that authorities may consider addressing include intake of contaminated soil (free ranging laying hens, flooded land, burned areas), waste oil (transmission oil leakage, using waste oil in paints), sisal (bags, binding twine), tyres used as feeding troughs or plaything in animal enclosures, applications of PCB-containing paints or coatings and releases from caulk.
Such measures may include: identification of possibly contaminated areas in the feed supply ecosystem, identification of the origin of frequently contaminated feed or feed ingredients, and monitoring the compliance of feed and feed ingredients with nationally-established guideline levels or maximum levels, if available.
For example, monitoring programs may include major fish species used in food or feed that have been shown to contain elevated levels of dioxins and PCBs.
If needed, another calculation based on fresh weight or dry matter could be considered.
GC/MS may also be used for screening purposes.
Good Laboratory Practices is a valuable system to ensure high quality of the analytical outcome.
In its preparation, coarse particles of the ground maize kernel may be separated, reground and recombined with all of the material from which they were separated.
Fungus products may contain salt (sodium chloride), vinegar, spices and herbs, sugars (any carbohydrate sweetening matter), refined edible vegetable oil, refined edible animal fat, butter, milk, milk powder, cream, water and wine.
Processed fungi may be presented in various styles, e.g. whole with stalks, whole caps (buttons) without stalks, slices, pieces and stalks, grits, powder or concentrate,
Any other presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that the product: a) is sufficiently distinctive from other forms of presentation laid down in this standard; b) meets all relevant requirements of this standard, including requirements relating to limitations on defects, drained weight, and any other requirements in this standard which are applicable to that style in the standard which most closely resembles the style or styles intended to be provided for under this provision; and c) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
Refer to Section 9.3 (Labelling) of the Guidelines on the Application of General Principles of Food Hygiene to the Control of Pathogenic Vibrio Species in Seafood and Section I-7 and II-7 of the Standard for Live and Raw Bivalve Molluscs (CODEX STAN 292-2008).
This may include: ・ The nature of pathogenic Vibrio spp., namely V. parahaemolyticus, choleragenic V. cholerae and V. vulnificus, their harbourage sites, and their resistance to various environmental conditions to be able to conduct a suitable hazard analysis for their products; ・ Control measures for reducing the risk of pathogenic Vibrio spp. associated with seafood during harvesting, processing, distribution, marketing, use and storage, for preventing cross-contamination and minimizing the growth of pathogenic Vibrio spp.; and ・ The means for verifying effectiveness of control programs, including sampling and analytical techniques.
Refer to Section 10.3 of the Recommended International Code of Practice- General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969).
Refer to Section 10.4 of the Recommended International Code of Practice-General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969) and Section 3.8 of the Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products (CAC/RCP 52-2003).
This Annex further provides information that may be of interest to regulatory authorities, the food industry, consumers, and other interested parties.
