This text is intended for voluntary application by commercial partners and not for application by governments.
See relevant Codex texts on methods of analysis and sampling.
While this Guideline is designed for foods derived from recombinant-DNA plants, the approach described could, in general, be applied to foods derived from plants that have been altered by other techniques.
Molecular biological and biochemical techniques can also be used to analyse potential changes at the level of gene transcription and message translation that could lead to unintended effects.
The history of use may include information on how the plant is typically cultivated, transported and stored, whether special processing is required to make the plant safe to eat, and the plant’s normal role in the diet (e.g. which part of the plant is used as a food source, whether its consumption is important in particular subgroups of the population, what important macro- or micro-nutrients it contributes to the diet).
This is without prejudice to legitimate concerns to safeguard the confidentiality of commercial and industrial information.
The type of studies to be performed may include studies on metabolism, toxicokinetics, sub-chronic toxicity, chronic toxicity/carcinogenicity, reproduction and development toxicity according to the traditional toxicological approach.
Alternative protocols may be used where adequate justification is provided10.
For proteins from sources not known to be allergenic, and which do not exhibit sequence homology to a known allergen, targeted serum screening may be considered where such tests are available as described in paragraph 17.
These methods should be scientifically sound and may include targeted serum screening (i.e. the assessment of binding to IgE in sera of individuals with clinically validated allergic responses to broadly-related categories of foods); the development of international serum banks; use of animal models; and examination of newly expressed proteins for T-cell epitopes and structural motifs associated with allergens.
Honey may have the following compositional and quality factors:
This may allow risk mitigation measures to be more cost-effective and tailored to the specific needs.
An example of a risk-based DSS tool with further guidance is provided in Figure 1.
A decision tree on the possible need for a fit-for-purpose assessment on the water is proposed in Figure 2.
An example of a DSS tool is provided in the appendix, based on the decision tool described in this section.
which has been permitted by the competent authority.
8.1.7 Adornments, such as vases with or without flowers or plants and other items may be placed in such a way that they do not represent a source for food contamination.
The product may contain sugar as well as suitable spices.
Flavour enhancers and sequestrants used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) in food category 09.2.5 (Smoked, dried, fermented, and/or salted fish and fish products, including mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms) and its parent food categories are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this Standard.
Food handlers that can afford specialized equipment with the necessary technical skills may use improved storage methods to store fresh roots for preservation.
In addition, safe storage guidance may be provided to reflect the environmental situation in each region.
Where necessary, packaging technologies such as vacuum and modified atmosphere packaging can be applied.
Any other presentation of the product should be permitted provided that the product: (a) is sufficiently distinctive from other forms of presentation laid down in the standard; (b) meets all relevant requirements of the standard, including requirements relating to limitations on defects, drained weight, and any other requirements which are applicable to that style which most closely resembles the style or styles intended to be provided for under this provision; and (c) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
Packing media may contain ingredients subject to labelling requirements of Section 8 and may include, but is not limited to: (a) sugars, as defined in the Standard for Sugars (CXS 212-1999), and/or other foodstuffs with sweetening properties such as honey, as defined in the Standard for Honey (CXS 12-1981); (b) aromatic plants, spices or extracts thereof, seasoning; (c) vinegar; (d) regular or concentrated fruit juice as defined in the General Standard for Fruit Juices and Nectars (CXS 247-2005); (e) oil; and (f) tomato puree as defined in the Standard for Processed Tomato Concentrates (CXS 57-1981).
Fats and oils that have been subjected to processes of physical or chemical modification including fractionation, interesterification or hydrogenation are included.
However a higher minimum percentage of milk fat may be specified in accordance with the requirements of the country of the retail sale.
Fat spreads with a fat content of 39 to 41% may be designated as “Minarine” or “Halvarine”.
For item 3.1, the name of the product may incorporate the name of the fats and oils in a generic or specific manner.
In this way, it is possible, in most cases, to estimate levels of exposure at which adverse effects are not observed and to set safe intake levels by the application of appropriate safety factors.
Alternative protocols may be used where adequate justification is provided 15.
Further, appropriately designed studies in animals may be used to assess the nutritional value of the food or the bioavailability of the newly expressed substance in the food.
may be needed on a case-by-case basis to assess the toxicity of expressed substances, taking into account the potential accumulation of any substances, toxic metabolites or antibiotics that might result from the genetic modification.
Appropriate oral toxicity studies may be carried out in cases where the protein is present in the food, but is not closely similar to proteins that have been safely consumed in food, and has not previously been consumed safely in food, and taking into account its biological function in microorganisms where known.
The type of studies to be performed may include evaluations of metabolism, toxicokinetics, chronic toxicity/carcinogenicity, impact on reproductive function, and teratogenicity.
– Starter cultures of harmless lactic acid and/ or flavour producing bacteria and cultures of other harmless micro-organisms; – Rennet or other safe and suitable coagulating enzymes; – Sodium chloride and potassium chloride as salt substitute; – Potable water; – Safe and suitable enzymes to enhance the ripening process; – Safe and suitable processing aids; – Rice, corn and potato flours and starches: Notwithstanding the provisions in the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978), these substances can be used in the same function as anti -caking agents for treatment of the surface of cut, sliced, and shredded products only, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by Good Manufacturing Practice, taking into account any use of the anti-caking agents listed in Section 4.
Metal detectors or X-rays can be used in food establishments such as slaughterhouses and fish processing facilities to detect and facilitate removal of lead shot (pellets) or fishing sinkers in wild game and fish.
As one regulatory option, national and local authorities could consider setting standards for lead migration and lead composition in food contact materials used in food processing or manufacturing.
Tolerances in respect of quality and size shall be allowed in each package (or in each lot for produce presented in bulk) for produce not satisfying the requirements of the class indicated.
These guidelines may also be useful in clarifying the information exchange requirements of Guidelines for the Design, Operation, Assessment and Accreditation of Food Import and Export Inspection and Certification Systems (CAC/GL 26 -1997) – specifically paragraphs 55 -57 of Section 9 – Assessment and verification of inspection and certification systems.
Further examples that may inform the importing country’s experience, knowledge and confidence are listed in paragraph 10 points (a) to (n) in the annex to CAC/GL 53 - 2003.
To facilitate the possible provision of information to multiple importing countries, exporting countries may develop standardised responses to describe the relevant components of their NFCS in so far as they relate to food safety and/or fair practices in the food trade.
For foods for special dietary uses, more detailed provisions may be developed.
It can include symbols/graphics, text or a combination thereof that provide information on the overall nutritional value of the food and/or on nutrients included in the FOPNL.
In addition, this information may be given per serving as quantified on the label or per portion provided that the number of portions contained in the package is stated.
This may be followed by the following: “x” ...g where “x” represents the specific name of any other carbohydrate constituent.
Governments may use a Codex NRV -NCD based on the reference energy intake of 8 370 kilojoules/2 000 kilocalories, or may derive their own reference values for nutrition labelling based on another reference energy intake that considers factors specific to their country or region.
Food additives used in accordance with Table 1 and Table 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)1 in food category 13.4 (Dietetic formulae for slimming purposes and weight reduction) or listed in Table 3 are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this standard.
(a) the amount of energy expressed in kilocalories (kcal) and kilojoules (kJ); (b) the amounts of protein, available carbohydrates and fat expressed in grams; (c) the amounts of vitamins and minerals in Section 3.2.4 expressed in metric units; (d) the amounts of other nutrients may also be declared.
Other statements, as required under Section 9.6 above and Section 4.5 of the Standard for the Labelling of and Claims for Foods for Special Medical Purposes (CXS 180-1991), may appear on an accompanying leaflet in which case reference shall be made to this fact on the label of the package and/or sachet.
(CXS 192-1995)1 are acceptable for use in food conforming to this standard.
The name of the product may include the name of an ingredient which characterizes the product.
Food additives listed in Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) in Food Category 02.2.1 (Butter) may be used in foods subject to this standard.
The Guidelines are commended to Governments, industry (including individual primary producers, manufacturers, processors, food service operators and retailers) and consumers alike.
The colouring of litchis may vary from pink to red in the case of untreated litchis; from pale yellow to pink for litchis that have been fumigated with sulphur dioxide.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: - slight misshaping; - slight defects in colouring; - slight skin defects provided these do not exceed a total area of 0.25 cm².
- A maximum size range of 10 mm between fruit in each package is permitted.
For all classes, 10% by number or weight of litchis not satisfying the requirements as regards the minimum size, provided, however, that the diameter is not less that 15 mm in all classes, and/or the maximum size range of 10 mm.
However, the presence of a limited number of fresh leaves is permitted where litchis are presented in bunches.
The following defects, however, may be allowed, provided the litchis retain their essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation: - defects in shape; - defects in colouring; - skin blemishes provided these do not exceed a total area of 0.5 cm².
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety or varietal type.
- Class; - Net weight (optional).
Tomato concentrate may be considered “Tomato Puree” or “Tomato Paste” when the concentrate meets these requirements:
Only certain acidity regulators as indicated in Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)2 are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this standard.
The percentage solids may be included on the label in either of the following manners: a) the minimum percentage of natural total soluble solids (example: “Minimum Solids – 20%”); or b) range within two percent of the natural total soluble solids (example: “Solids – 20% to 22%”).
1 iso code: the two letter country codes, in compliance with the international standard (ISO 3166 alpha-2), could be used.
The relevant part of the country may be mentioned where this relates to specific attestations.
Olives may be offered in one of the following styles:
They may contain pieces of the stuffing material.
Other ingredients may be used such as: (a) water; (b) food-grade salts as defined in the Standard for Food-Grade Salt (CXS 150-1985);1 (c) vinegar; (d) olive oil as defined in the Standard for Olive Oils and Olive Pomace Oil (CXS 33-1981)2 or other edible vegetable oils as defined in the Standard for Named Vegetable Oils (CXS 210-1999);3 (e) sugars as defined by the Standard for Sugars (CXS 212-1999)4 and/or other foodstuffs with sweetening properties such as honey (Standard for Honey [CXS 12-1981]);5 (f) any single or combination of edible material used as an accompaniment or stuffing such as, for example, pimiento, onion, almond, celery, anchovy, capers, or pastes thereof; and (g) spices and aromatic herbs or natural extracts thereof.
Whole, split, stoned (pitted) and stuffed olives of appropriate varieties may be classified in this category.
All the types, preparations and styles of table olives may be classified in this category, except for chopped or broken olives.
Acidity regulators, antioxidants, colour retention agents,iv firming agents, flavour enhancers, preservatives, and thickenersv used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)6 in Food Category 04.2.2.3 (Vegetables (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and legumes, and aloe vera), and seaweeds in vinegar, oil, brine, or soybean sauce) or listed in Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives6 are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this standard.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: • Non-transversal cuts or surfaces and/or scars, as long as they do not exceed 10% of the surface of the product; • A slight defect in shape. The defects must not, in any case, affect the pulp of yams.
The following defects may be allowed provided that the yam retains its essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: • Non-transversal cuts or surfaces and/or scars, as long as they do not exceed 15% of the surface of the product; • defects in shape. The defects must not, in any case, affect the pulp of yams.
Produce that fail conformity assessment, may be allowed to be re-sorted and brought into conformity in accordance with the relevant provisions in the Guidelines for Food Import Control Systems (CXG 47-2003).
Identification code (optional)
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general a ppearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package:
In the case of cobs of baby corn with incompletely removed husk and stalk, only 5 % by number or weight of 0.5 cm long of the husk and stalk is allowed.
In the case of cobs of baby corn with incompletely removed husk and stal k, only 5% by number or weight of 0.5 cm long of the husk and stalk is allowed.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package (or lot for produce presented in bulk) shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety.
For tankers the information may appear exclusively in the accompanying documents.
Pulp and cells2 obtained by suitable physical means from the same kind of fruit may be added.
Pulp and cells obtained by suitable physical means from the same kind of fruit may be added.
Concentrated fruit purée may have restored aromatic substances and volatile flavour components, all of which must be obtained by suitable physical means, and all of which must be recovered from the same kind of fruit.
Food additives listed in Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives in Food Categories 14.1.2.1 (Fruit juice), 14.1.2.3 (Concentrates for fruit juice), 14.1.3.1 (Fruit nectar) and 14.1.3.3 (Concentrates for fruit nectar) may be used in foods subject to this Standard.
10 May also be used e.g. for preservation.
These names may only be used if the product conforms to the definition in Section 2.1 or which otherwise conform to this Standard.
Onions and shallots may be classified into three classes defined below:
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed: a very slight defect in shape; very slight defects in colouring; very light staining, provided it does not cover more than one fifth of the bulb’s surface; for onions, bulbs should be free from splits and/or double centres and more; and root tufts shall be allowed: for grey shallots; and for onions and other shallots harvested before complete maturity.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided that they do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: a slight defect in shape; slight defects in colouring; superficial cracks in and partial absence of the outer skins, provided the flesh is protected; light staining, provided it does not cover more than one third of the bulb’s surface; for onions, double and/or three bulbs and more; for onions, slight glassiness/translucence not exceeding the outer fleshy ring; root tufts shall be allowed: for grey shallots; for onions and other shallots harvested before complete maturity; and practically free of sprouted onions.
The following sizing provisions are a guide and may be used:
The following defects may be allowed, provided the onions and shallots retain their essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation: defects in shape; defects in colouring; slight bruising; healed mechanical damage; root tufts; stains, provided they do not cover more than one half the bulb’s surface; cracks in the outer skins and partial absence of the skins on a maximum of one third of the bulb’s surface, provided the flesh is not damaged; and for onions, slight glassiness/translucence not exceeding the two outer fleshy rings; for onions, double and/or three bulbs and more; and practically free of sprouted onions.
Produce that fails conformity assessment, may be allowed to be re-sorted and brought into conformity in accordance with the relevant provisions in the Guidelines for Food Import Control Systems (CXG 47-2003).2
In addition, 4 percent, by number or weight, of firm bulbs may present externally visible shoot growth not exceeding 1 cm.
It is recommended that the produce covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969),7 the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003),8 and other relevant Codex texts such as codes of hygienic practice and codes of practice.
Cheddar intended for further processing need not exhibit the same extent of ripening when justified through technical and/or trade needs.
Starter cultures of harmless lactic acid and/ or flavour producing bacteria and cultures of other harmless microorganisms; Rennet or other safe and suitable coagulating enzymes; Sodium chloride and potassium chloride as a salt substitute; Potable water; Safe and suitable enzymes to enhance the ripening process; Safe and suitable processing aids; Rice, corn and potato flours and starches: Notwithstanding the provisions in the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978), these substances can be used in the same function as anti-caking agents for treatment of the surface of cut, sliced, and shredded products only, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by Good Manufacturing Practice, taking into account any use of the anti-caking agents listed in Section 4.
Other processing techniques, which give end products with the same physical, chemical and organoleptic characteristics may be applied.
1.1 This code recommends proper packaging and transport of fresh fruit and vegetables in order to maintain produce quality during transportation and marketing.
Local trade publications also are excellent sources of information, as many carriers and their agents advertise their schedules and destinations.
Use of insulated thermal blankets is an option.
This can minimize the unloading of cargo for examination.
A sheet of fibreboard with holes for air circulation can be used to distribute air across the pallet.
Acidity regulators, colours, and sequestrants used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) in food category 09.4 (Fully preserved, including canned or fermented fish and fish products, including mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms) and only certain Table 3 acidity regulators as indicated in Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this Standard.
Any other presentation shall be permitted provided that it: is sufficiently distinctive from other forms of presentation laid down in this standard; meets all other requirements of this standard; is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
Canned shrimp may be designated as to size in accordance with: (i) the actual count range may be declared on the label; or (ii) provisions given in Annex "B".
The terms "extra large", "jumbo", "large", "medium", "small", "tiny" may be used provided that the range is in accordance with the following table: Number of whole shrimp (including pieces greater than 4 segments) per 100g of drained product SIZE DESIGNATION RANGE Extra Large or Jumbo 13 or less Large 14-19 Medium 20-34 Small 35-65 Tiny more than 65
Small cracks which have appeared after harvesting are, however, allowed, so long as they do not exceed the limits laid down in Section 4.1, Quality Tolerances.
However, to improve presentation when the asparagus is packed in bundles, those on the outside may be slightly bevelled, so long as the bevelling does not exceed 1 cm.
The cut at the base of the shoots may be slightly oblique.
(ii) Arranged, but not bundled in the package. (iii) In prepackaged units placed in another package.
(a) in accordance with the provisions of Codex standards or guidelines for foods for special dietary uses, and follow the principles set forth in such standards or guidelines; or (b) in the absence of an applicable Codex standard or guideline, permitted under the laws of the country in which the food is distributed.
Also, see CXC 23-1979 for aspects of in-container sterilization not already covered by this code.
The guidelines contained in sections 5.1.1 to 5.1.3 are intended to be supplemental to the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969) HACCP Annex.
Therefore, the utilization of synergistic effects can allow for combining microbiological control measures of less intensity than would be otherwise expected from each measure individually.
• Reduction of the intended shelf life and/or amendments of the intended storage conditions.
Reasonable anticipated temperature abuse can be integrated into the study or be taken into account by applying an appropriate safety factor (e.g., by shortening the maximum durability specified in the labelling or by requiring lower storage temperatures).
In some cases, for example where more comprehensive control measures are put into place to ensure the safety and suitability of milk (such as may be the case for raw milk intended to be used in the production of raw milk products), it may be necessary to establish criteria for in -process product, intermediate product or finished product in order to verify that the more comprehensive set of control measures have been properly carried out.
For example: • organize collection pick-ups in such a way that milk for the manufacture of raw milk products be collected separately; or • use milk transport tankers with compartments that will allow the separation of the milk for raw milk products from milk to be heat processed combined with the pick-up of milk for raw-milk products before milk for other products.
However, this does not preclude in any way the use of additional and/or alternative microbiological control measures, provided that the general guidance provided in this Annex is followed.
The users of this document are encouraged to implement the guidelines contained in the HACCP Annex when designing a HACCP system and to refer to those Annex II guidelines for further details on the hazard analysis, control measure selection and critical limit determination.
Other methods could also be used to demonstrate that the appropriate heat treatment has been applied.
Avoid insect, bird, and rodent infestation during transportation by the use of insect and rodent proof containers or insect and rodent repellent chemical treatments provided they are approved for the intended use of the peanuts.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to the name of the variety and/or commercial type.
Identification code (optional)5.
Tree tomatoes may be sized by diameter, weight or count.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to the name of the variety.
Identification code (optional) 4.
 Class;  Size (size code or diameter or weight range or count);  Net weight (optional).
The fat and/or protein content of the milk may have been adjusted, only to comply with the compositional requirements in Section 3 of this standard, by the addition and/or withdrawal of milk constituents in such a way as not to alter the whey protein to casein ratio of the milk being adjusted.
The name of the food shall be: Evaporated milk according to the composition specified in Section 3 Evaporated skimmed milk Evaporated partly skimmed milk Evaporated high-fat milk Evaporated partly skimmed milk may be designated “evaporated semi-skimmed milk” if the milkfat content is 4.0–4.5 percent and the minimum milk solids is 24 percent m/m.
Notwithstanding the provision of Section 4.2.1 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), milk products used only for protein adjustment need not be declared.
In addition to the styles defined in the corresponding annexes, any other styles should be permitted as indicated in Section 2.2.1.
Any commercially cultivated variety or type suitable for canning may be used.
used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General standard for food additives (CXS 192-1995)5 in Food Category 04.1.2.4 (Canned or bottled (pasteurized) fruit) or listed in Table 3 of the General Standard are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this annex.
8.2.6 If an added ingredient, as defined in Section 3.1.2, alters the flavour characteristic of the product, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the term “flavoured with X” or “X flavoured” as appropriate. 8.2.7 The name of the product may include the varietal type.
Canned pineapple may be packed in the following cored or uncored styles: 63%
Canned pineapple may be packed in the following types of pack:
In addition to Section 3.1.3 of Standard for certain canned fruits (CXS 319-2015)14 clarified pineapple juice is allowed.
The product may be cooked using steam and other appropriate cooking methods and/or under certain pressure, temperature and time, before being quickly frozen or refrigerated.
The recognized practice of repacking quick-frozen products under temperature-controlled conditions is permitted.
Other names ii may be used in accordance with the law and custom of the country in which the product is sold and in such a manner as to not mislead consumers.
Some examples of such statements are: “NON-RETAIL CONTAINER”, “NON-RETAIL CONTAINER – NOT FOR DIRECT SALE TO CONSUMER” or carry any other mark that indicates that the container is not intended to be sold directly to the consumer.
A “coined”, “fanciful”, “brand” name or “trade mark” may be used provided it accompanies one of the names provided in Subsections 5.1.1.1 to 5.1.1.3.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: • a slight defect in shape (but free of swelling or malformations); • slight defects in colouring; • slight, superficial skin defects, provided the total area affected does not exceed 1 cm2; • small “Hayward marks” (longitudinal lines) without protuberance.
The following defects, however, may be allowed, provided the kiwifruit retain their essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation: • defects in shape including flattened fruit; • defects in colouring; • skin defects provided that the total area affected does not exceed 2 cm2; • several more-pronounced “Hayward marks” with a slight protuberance; • slight bruising.
For all classes (if sized), 10% by number or weight of kiwifruit not satisfying the requirements as regards sizing is allowed.
Identification code (optional)4.
A trade name 5 can only be given in addition to the variety or the synonym.
See CXS 234-1999.
Food additives listed in Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) in Food Category 02.1.1 (Butter oil, anhydrous milkfat, ghee) may be used in foods subject to this standard.
Portions could be sawn off large fish or off blocks, but this might be difficult in the case of thick material unless a bandsaw is available.
The evaluation area must not be used for chemical and microbiological analyses however, some types of analyses could be done in the preparation area.
Characteristics to look for are listed in Table 1 of Annex I.
This may be used as part of the selection procedure, but should definitely be used as part of the training sessions to illustrate the contribution to the flavours of fish contributed by the ribonucleotides.
Two examples two test methods which would be appropriate for use in assessing odour perception are presented in Annex II.
a standardized test for assessment of odour perception, is available from Sensonics, Incorporated, 155 Haddon Avenue, Haddonfield, New Jersey, 08033 USA.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package:  slight defects in shape;  scarring or healed damage, not exceeding ten percent of the surface area;  scraped areas, not exceeding ten percent of the product surface. The defects must not, in any case, affect the pulp of the product.
The following defects may be allowed, provided the yacon retains the essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation:  defects in shape;  scarring or healed damage, not exceeding 20 percent of the surface area; and  scraped areas, not exceeding 20 percent of the product surface. The flesh must be free of major quality defects.
However, a mixture of yacon of different varieties and/or commercial types may be packaged together provided they are uniform in quality and the origin of each variety and/or commercial type is the same.
Each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to the name of the variety and/or commercial type.
For illustrative purposes, an example of a verification procedure approach for a CCP and DAP using the canned tuna fish processing line is shown in Table 5.10.
For illustration purposes, an example of a record-keeping approach for a CCP and DAP using the canned tuna fish processing line is shown in Table 5.10.
For illustrative purposes, Tables 5.6 and 5.7 demonstrate an approach to listing significant hazards and defects and the related control measures for the processing step “heat processing”.
Other methods such as bacteriophage and viral detection could also be used as indicators when validated analytical methods become available in the future.
When appropriate, taking into account the epidemiological situation as indicated by the results of environmental monitoring and/or other surveillance, the competent authority may decide a criterion for Salmonella.
Any methods may be deemed suitable for screening purposes provided they are approved by the competent national authority.
• Refer to Sections 9.5.1 and 9.5.2 for guidance on the reception and storage of ingredients.
Refer also to Section 9.1.4.
It is recommended that users of this Code consult Section 9.5.
Refer also to Section 4.1. Processors can also refer to the Code of Hygienic Practice for Low and Acid- ified Low Acid Canned Foods (CXC 23-1979) to obtain detailed advice on canning operations.
If evidence indicates that temperature abuse leading to elevated histamine could have occurred, the affected lot may be rejected by the receiving personnel, or the receiver may perform intensified histamine analysis on representative fish collected throughout the lot, and the lot rejected if any fish exceed the established histamine limit.
Few prolific histamine-producing bacteria will grow and multiply at refrigeration temperatures, and the growth rates of those that do are greatly reduced.
Figure 15A.2 Example flow chart for the processing of cooked lobster
• If drugs are used, appropriate withdrawal times must be followed.
Refer to Section 21.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: - slight superficial defects; - slight defects in colouring; and - slight pest damage.
The following defects may be allowed, provided the chanterelles retain their essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation: - superficial defects; - defects in colouring; - pest damage; and - damage, including the removal of blemished parts.
For all classes (if sized): a tolerance of 10 percent, by weight, of chanterelles not satisfying the requirements as regards sizing is allowed.
It is recommended that the produce covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969),3 the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003)4 and other relevant Codex Alimentarius texts such as codes of hygienic practice and codes of practice.
Botanical name of species (optional).
With the establishment of the negligible risk compartment as described in Chapter 8.15 Infection with Trichinella spp. of the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code , including consideration of the level of public health protection provided, the competent authority may provide derogation from specific post -slaughter controls or change the level of application of specific post-slaughter controls.
The competent authority can then decide which follow -up actions are necessary including possible disposal of the carcass.
The basic requirements for a Codex Contact Point could be; committed staff; adequate office space; communication facilities e.g. telephone, fax, email, postal address etc; stationery; printing and photocopying equipment, e.g. computers, printers, photocopiers etc.
However the primary functions could be: a) formulate the country’s response to the proposals of the Codex Alimentarius Commission; b) nominate delegates to represent the country at various Codex meetings; c) advise the government on the best possible decisions regarding Codex standards and their implementation; d) appoint technical sub-committees whenever necessary for the country's effective participation in Codex; e) undertake other duties according to the government’s advice.
The participants at this meeting would then identify and invite other members to the NCC through the secretary.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: - a slight defect in shape; - slight defects of the skin such as scratches, not exceeding more than 10% of the total surface area of the fruit; - slight defects in colouring. The defects must not, in any case, affect the flesh of the fruit.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce: golden passion fruit /sweet granadilla, purple passion fruit, yellow passion fruit and may be labelled as to name of the variety.
Any presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that it: (i) contains at least two fish in each can; (ii) meets all requirements of this standard; (iii) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer; and (iv) contains only one fish species.
2 Only natural flavouring substances, natural flavouring complexes and smoke flavourings are permitted in products covered by this standard.
These molecular and immunological methods are applicable to a wide range of uses such as tests for biomarkers in foods, including those derived from modern biotechnology and food authentication, and may be used by laboratories responsible for food analysis.
For target and taxon-specific methods used in relative quantification, identification of the amplified fragment, by e.g. probe hybridization or any appropriate equivalent method, is recommended.
Specific information on the validation of quantitative and qualitative protein-based methods is given in Annex IV.
Reference materials for protein-based methods can be e.g. the protein itself purified from recombinant microbes (such as E. coli), a ground plant matrix (typically leaf or grain), or a processed food fraction.
Instructions for correct application may include recommended number and range of levels, minimum replicates/dilutions for routine analyses, and means/confidence intervals for evaluating goodness-of-fit.
Empirical results from testing the methods (to detect both reference and target DNA sequences, or proteins) with different species, subspecies, varieties, cultivars, animal lines, or microbial strains as appropriate, may be provided in order to demonstrate, for instance, the stability of the copy number and sequence conservation of the taxon-specific gene DNA, or the stability of expression of the protein.
Empirical results from testing both methods with aliquots of the same analytical samples of known concentration may be provided.
Both the weight to weight ratio and copy number to copy number ratio calculations are acceptable provided this is clearly stated when reporting results.
The potential for interferences from reagents and labware can be evaluated by assaying extracts from analyte-free material.
A Microbiological Risk Assessment may need reevaluation, as new relevant information becomes available.
Additionally, experts may be able to devise ranking systems so that they can be used to characterize severity and/or duration of disease.
Although Microbiological Risk Assessment is the primary focus of this document, the method can also be applied to certain other classes of biological hazards.
Water or other volatile ingredients evaporated in the course of manufacture need not be declared.
Therefore, the allowance of oats that are not contaminated with wheat, rye or barley in foods covered by this standard may be determined at the national level.
• Flavour (s) and flavouring(s) • Modified starch(es) The expression “flavours” may be qualified by “natural”, “nature identical”, “artificial” or a combination of these words as appropriate.
either the date itself; or a reference to where the date is given.
When the quantity of an ingredient or the total quantity of all ingredients expressed on the labelling exceeds 100 percent, the percentage may be replaced by the declaration of the weight of the ingredient(s) used to prepare 100 g of finished product.
The use of the international food irradiation symbol, as shown below, is optional, but when it is used, it shall be in close proximity to the name of the food.
Validation measures by exporting countries may include achieving confidence that official or officially recognised inspections systems have verified that the product or process referred to in the certificate conforms with requirements.
Measures by importing countries may include point of entry inspection systems, audit of exporting inspection systems, and ensuring that certificates themselves are authentic and accurate.
Flour treatment agents used in accordance with Table 1 and Table 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)1 in food category 06.2.1 “Flours” are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this standard.
The formation of street food vendor associations or cooperatives should be encouraged to provide a liaison point with the relevant authorities in view of facilitating the implementation of control measures.
The point of sampling should preferably be at the point of usage, but occasionally it would be useful to sample at the point of entry of the water to the establishment.
7.1.4 Only permitted food additives should be used and the amount added should follow the specifications provided.
The keeping of records that can be transmitted digitally and are searchable should be encouraged so as to facilitate the tracing of product through more complex distribution networks in a timely fashion.
Useful guidance on establishing a food safety emergency plan can be found in the FAO/WHO framework for developing national food safety emergency response plans10.
A model standard format for information exchange in food safety emergencies is provided in the Annex.
This will enable countries to review their risk assessment, risk management and risk communication strategies as the situation changes.
The FAO Emergency Prevention System for Food Safety12 (EMPRES Food Safety) may provide assistance in setting up such systems.
8.1.2 The name of product can be labelled in accordance with domestic laws, so that its characteristics may be expressed.
Optional ingredients for dried fruits not covered in an annex may include, but are not limited to: (1) flour (e.g. rice flour, corn flour); and/or (2) edible vegetable oils.
Styles may be classified as: (1) whole – whole fruit, unpeeled or peeled, unpitted or pitted and flattened; and (2) sliced/pieces – peeled, pitted, and sliced persimmon flesh of irregular shape, size and thickness.
Range (mm) Range (inches) >34 >1 3/8 >31–34 >1 1/4–1 3/8 >28–31 >1 1/8–1 1/4 >25–28 >1–1 1/8 20–25 13/16–1 <20 <13/16 (3) Si ze ranges other than option (1) or (2) and size codes other than option (1) are allowed provided that the range used is labelled accordingly such as: Grade code Number of whole fruits without stones per kg A 140 and less or 32 mm and larger B 141–180 or 30 mm–32 mm C 181–220 or 26 mm–29 mm D 221–260 or 21 mm–25 mm E 261 and more or Less than 20 mm (4) Or by count: Size code Number of fruits per kg 1 ≤100 2 101–120 3 121–140 4 141–160 5 161–180 6 181–200 7 201–220 8 ≥221
Periodic disinfestation with appropriate approved fumigants or other pesticides may be useful.
The following slig ht defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: - a slight defect in shape and development; - a slight defect in colouring not exceeding 5% of the total surface area; - slight skin defects such as scars, blemishes, scratches and bruises not exceeding 2% of the total surface area.
The following defects, however, may be allowed, provided the okra retains its essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation: - defects in shape and development; - a slight defect in colouring not exceeding 10% of the total surface area; - skin defects such as scars, blemishes, scratches and bruises not exceeding 5% of the total surface area.
For all classes, 10% by number of okra corresponding to the size immediately above or below that indicated on the package.
Voluntary or officially recognised quality assurance (QA) systems may be implemented by the establishment operator where they enhance meat hygiene activities, and they may be taken into account in the verification of regulatory requirements by the competent authority.
Although not included in the scope of this Annex, microbiological testing of meat may also be used to assess suitability.
The competent authority may take into account varying needs of different consumer populations so that suitability judgements do not distort the economics of the food supply.
These criteria should be measurable in real time, will most likely constitute critical limits at critical control points in HACCP plans, and may be subject to microbiological verification as appropriate.
Additional to verification of process control, the results of microbiological testing may be used to establish on-farm controls e.g. intensive measures to reduce the prevalence of Salmonella spp. in fattening pigs.
Regulatory intervention and/or sanctions may be necessary when validated controls are not being properly implemented.
Rice may contain inorganic arsenic (arsenite and arsenate) and organic arsenic (monomethylarsonic acid and dimethylarsinic acid).
The measures in Section 4.4 may be implemented if necessary.
The process of husking and handling may result in some loss of bran (CM 06491).
Education programmes may include: Publishing and disseminating technical guidance on rice cultivation techniques to reduce arsenic in rice. Establishing farmer field schools.
Producers could select such rice cultivars, if available and suitable.
c) Ground: processed into powders.
Anticaking agents listed in Table 1 and Table 2 of food category 12.2.1 ( herbs and spices) of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)1 are acceptable for use in powdered thyme.
The following table is a guide and may be used on an optional basis.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety, class, size (if sized) expressed in accordance with any one of the following methods: count, size code and range, size range.
Relevant World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines and policies and World Health Assembly (WHA) resolutions were considered in the development of this standard and may provide further guidance to countries.
For the product as defined in Section 2.1 with a protein level below 3.0 g/100 kcal a maximum level of available carbohydrates up to 14 g/100 kcal (3.3 g/100 kJ) may be permitted by competent national and/or regional authorities.
Optional ingredients listed in 3.2.3, Section A are also permitted.
Competent national and/or regional authorities may deviate from the above conditions, as appropriate for the nutritional needs of their population.
are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this standard.
The flavourings used in products covered by this standard should comply with the Guidelines for the Use of Flavourings (CXG 66-2008).15 12) National and/or regional authorities may restrict or prohibit the use of the listed flavourings.
Only the food additives listed in food category 13.1.2 (Follow -up formulae) of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)1 or in the Advisory Lists of Nutrient Compounds for Use in Foods for Special Dietary Uses Intended for Infants and Young Children (CXG 10-1979)4 may be present in the foods described in Section 2.1 of this section, as a result of carry-over from a raw material or other ingredient (including food additive) used to produce the food, subject to the following conditions: a) The amount of the food additive in the raw materials or other ingredients (including food additives) does not exceed the maximum level specified; and b) The food into which the food additive is carried over does not contain the food additive in greater quantity than would be introduced by the use of the raw materials or ingredients under good manufacturing practice, consistent with the provisions on carry-over in the Preamble of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995).1
The food additives’ INS number may also be optionally declared.
