1.2 Foods for general consumption which by their nature are suitable for use by people with gluten intolerance may indicate such suitability in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.3.
Decisions on the marketing of products described in this section may be determined at the national level.
Where appropriate in the country of sale, the name may be supplemented by the designation 7actose -rich deproteinized ____ powder8, the blank being filled with the term dairy, whey or milk, as appropriate to the nature of the product.
Optional information, such as product origin, quality, color, may be included.
However, lot identification, and the name and address of the manufacturer or packer may be replaced by an identification mark, provided that such a mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents.
No product other than infant formula may be marketed or otherwise represented as suitable for satisfying, by itself, the nutritional requirements of normal healthy infants during the first months of life.
See Section A 2.2
Unit Minimum Maximum GUL16) mg/100 kcal 0.45 - - mg/100 kJ 0.1 - - 16) Levels may need to be determined by national authorities.
In addition to the compositional requirements listed under Section 3.1.3, other ingredients may be added in order to provide substances ordinarily found in human milk or required to ensure that the formulation is suitable as the sole source of nutrition for the infant and for the dietary management of his/her disease, disorder or medical condition.
Only L(+) lactic acid-producing cultures may be used in formulas for special medical purposes for infants if shown to be safe and appropriate for use in these vulnerable populations.
See Section A 3.7
Only the food additives listed in food category 13.1.3 (Formula e for special medical purposes intended for infants) of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)1 may be present in the foods conforming to this standard, as a result of carry-over from a raw material or other ingredient (including food additive) used to produce the food, subject to the following conditions: a) the amount of the food additive in the raw materials or other ingredients (including food additives) does not exceed the maximum level specified; and b) the food into which the food additive is carried over does not contain the food additive in greater quantity than would be introduced by the use of the raw materials or ingredients under good manufacturing practice, consistent with the provisions on carry-over in the preamble of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995).
Only L(+) lactic acid-producing cultures may be used.
13.1.1 (Infant formulae) are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this standard.
Only the food additives listed in food category 13.1.1 (Infant formula e) of the above-mentioned standard (CXS 192-1995)1 may be present in the foods conforming to this standard, as a result of carry-over from a raw material or other ingredient (including food additive) used to produce the food, subject to the following conditions: a) the amount of the food additive in the raw materials or other ingredients (including food additives) does not exceed the maximum level specified; and b) the food into which the food additive is carried over does not contain the food additive in greater quantity than would be introduced by the use of the raw materials or ingredients under good manufacturing practice, consistent with the provisions on carry -over in the preamble of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995).
In the case of products requiring a declaration of month and year only, and the shelf life of the product is valid to the end of a given year, the expression "end (stated year)" may be used as an alternative.
Modifications of the approach may be needed when there is justification for deviating from one or more of these assumptions with regard to the specific formula product or specific infant population group.
2.1.2 See Section A 2.1.2 2.2 Other definitions See Section A 2.2
Other processing techniques, which give end products with the same physical, chemical and organoleptic characteristics are allowed.
Notwithstanding the provisions in the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978),3 these substances can be used in the same function as anti-caking agents for treatment of the surface of cut, sliced, and shredded mozzarella with a low moisture content only, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by good manufacturing practice, taking into account any use of the anti-caking agents listed in Section 4.
For the definition of cheese surface and rind see Appendix to the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978).
The designation may also be used for cut, sliced, shredded, or grated products made from cheese which cheese is in conformity with this standard.
Tolerances in respect of quality and size shall be allowed for produce not satisfying the requirements of the class indicated.
Not more than one cluster of three fingers with the same characteristics as the other fruit in the package may be present per row.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety.
Country of origin and, optionally, district where grown or national, regional or local place name.
To facilitate the global use of the commodity groups for MRLs, alternative representative commodities may be selected giving flexibility for use of residue research conducted in different countries or re gions that may vary due to regional differences in dietary consumption and/or areas of production for certain commodities.
However, JMPR may use other representative commodities (including those which may be specifically requested by member nations)
For example, leeks may be proposed as an alternative representative commodity for green onions in the green onion subgroup of bulb vegetables.
Examples of these possible wider extrapolations include (1) translation of certain stone or pome fruit MRLs to a tropical fruit; (2) where residues are all <LOQ (limit of quantification) for pre-emergent herbicide uses and (3) seed treatments for non systemic pesticides.
Broccoli (Could be partly replaced by Cauliflower) and Cabbage, Head or Chinese cabbage (type Pe-tsai) and Brussels sprouts and Kohlrabi Brassica vegetables (except Brassica leafy vegetables), Flowerhead cabbages (VB0040): Broccoli; Brussels sprouts; Cabbages, Head; Chinese cabbage (type Pe-tsai); Cauliflower; Kohlrabi; Stem mustard
Should there be existing Codex Contact Points and National Codex Committees, these guidelines could serve to further improve on their efficiency.
The primary tasks of the National Codex Committee may include:
The basic requirements for a Codex Contact Point may include the following: - committed staff; - code of conduct; - adequate office space; - communication facilities, e.g. telephone, fax, e-mail, postal address, etc.; - stationery; - printing and photocopying equipment, e.g. computer, printer, photocopier, etc.
The longan’s skin may be lighter in colour than normal when treated by sulphur dioxide gas.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: slight skin defects such as bruising, scratches or other mechanical damage not exceeding a total area of 0.5 cm2.
The following defects, however, may be allowed, provided the longans retain their essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation: skin defects such as bruising, scratches or other mechanical damage not exceeding a total area of 0.5 cm2.
Tolerances in respect of quality and size shall be allowed in each package for produce not satisfying the requirements of the class indicated.
A maximum of 10% by number or weight of detached fruit is allowed in each package.
- Class; - Size (size code or minimum and maximum diameter in millimetres); - Net weight (optional).
See comment above Pycnometry I Olive oils and olive pomace oils Refractive index ISO 6320 or AOCS Cc 7-25 Refractometry II Olive oils and olive pomace oils Saponification value ISO 3657 or AOCS Cd 3-25 Titrimetry I Olive oils and olive pomace oils Sterol composition and total sterols COI/T.20/Doc. no. 30 | ISO 12228-2 or AOCS Ch 6-91 Gas chromatography II Olive oils and olive pomace oils Stigmastadienes COl/T.20/Doc. no. 11 or ISO 15788-1 or AOCS Cd 26-96 Gas chromatography II Olive oils and olive pomace oils Stigmastadienes ISO 15788-2 HPLC III Olive oils and olive pomace oils Trans fatty acids content COI/T.20/Doc no. 17 or ISO 15304 or AOCS Ch 2a-94 Gas chromatography of methyl esters II Olive oils and olive pomace oils Unsaponifiable matter ISO 3596 or ISO 18609 or AOCS Ca 6b-53 Gravimetry I Olive oils and olive pomace oils Wax content COI/T.20/Doc. no. 18 or AOCS Ch 8-02 Gas chromatography II
The verification of a sample’s authenticity/quality can be assessed by comparison of data for the sample, generated using appropriate methods included in the standard, with that produced for fruit of the same type and from the same region, allowing for natural variations, seasonal changes and for variations occurring due to processing. Calculate using the following equation: Moisture (%) = {(g test portion before drying – g test portion after drying) / g test portion before drying}×100.
Air-tight desiccator: silica gel heated at 150 °C is satisfactory drying agent.
To hasten the thawing process forced air ventilation may be applied and the packages may be separated from each other.
Products packed in tightly sealed containers may be thawed by immersion of the container in water at a temperature not exceeding 30 6C, e.g. a water bath with thermostat and circulation pump.
– Starter cultures of harmless lactic acid and/ or flavour producing bacteria and cultures of other harmless micro-organisms; – Rennet or other safe and suitable coagulating enzymes; – Sodium chloride and potassium chloride as salt substitute; – Safe and suitable enzymes to enhance the ripening process; – Safe and suitable processing aids; – Potable water; – Rice, corn and potato flours and starches: Notwithstanding the provisions in the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978), these substances can be used in the same function as anti-caking agents for treatment of the surface of cut, sliced, and shredded products only, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by Good Manufacturing Practice, taking into account any use of the anti-caking agents listed in Section 4.
The designation may also be used for cut, sliced, shredded or grated products made from cheese which cheese is in conformity with this Standard.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.7.1 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the date of manufacture may be declared instead of the minimum durability information, provided that the product is not intended to be purchased as such by the final consumer.
It is recognized that reasonable application of technological measures such as Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), can be taken to prevent or reduce significantly the concentrations of hydrogen cyanide in cassava products.
It is evident that high concentrations of cyanogenic glycosides may result in higher concentrations of hydrogen cyanide.
These will facilitate the fermentation process.
Cassava chips used as a snack food may be made from extruded flour or from dried cassava chips.
The National Root Crop Research Institute in Nigeria suggested that optimal hydrocyanic acid reduction can be achieved through a combination of 15 minute soaking and 2 minute blanching of cassava chips.
Campaigns for introduction of other staples, vegetables, pulses and fruits to decrease the daily cyanide intake and broaden the diet could also result in lower consumption of cyanogenic glycosides.
8.2.1 The name of the product shall be “dried saffron” as described in Section 2.1. 8.2.2 The name of the product may include an indication of the style as described in Section 2.2. 8.2.3 Variety or cultivar may be listed on the label.
The functions that can be conducted by such providers may include: – sampling of target consignments;
The legal framework allows for the establishment of the competent authority(ies) and the processes and procedures required to verify the conformity of imported products against requirements.
Details of consignments that may be obtained include: 6 date and point of entry; 6 mode of transport; 6 comprehensive description of the commodity (including for example product description, amount, means of preservation, country of origin and/or of dispatch, identifying marks such as lot identifier or seal identification numbers etc); 6 exporter 6s and importer 6s name and address; 6 manufacturer and/or producer, including establishment registration number; 6 destination; and, 6 other information.
Procedures may include further testing and examination of previous compliance history.
When food is rejected because it fails to meet national standards of the importing country but conforms to international standards, the option of withdrawing the rejected consignment should be considered.
– recognize that arrangements need not rely on the presentation of certificates or documentation with individual consignments, when such an approach is acceptable to both parties.
Such agreements may be of particular value where, for example, there is limited access to specific facilities such as laboratories and consignment tracking systems.
The information may include: – requirements of food control systems; – “hard copy” certificates attesting to conformity with requirements of the particular consignment; – electronic data or certificates where accepted by the parties involved; – details about rejected food consignment, such as destruction, re-exportation, processing, re-conditioning or redirection of consignment for uses other than human consumption; – list of establishments or facilities that conform to importing country requirements.
Alternative arrangements may include some sampling of product as an audit, rather than routine inspection.
4. This annex is intended to provide competent authorities with information to assist them with the design and implementation of inspection programmes for imported food, based on the food safety risks.
When an importing country does not have prior knowledge of an exporting country’s processing controls or of the food itself, that is those items listed in paragraph 6, a compliance history is lacking or such information cannot be readily obtained, an importing country may, until there is such knowledge, initially establish inspections of a more comprehensive nature and of a higher frequency than that which it might assign to the food when such information is available.
These procedures may include for example: checking the documentation and/or the general condition of the shipment; checking documentation plus periodic food sampling (e.g., 1 in 20 or 1 in 40 shipments) to confirm the accuracy of the documentation; sensory examination; random or targeted sampling and testing of, or within, shipments according to a sampling plan; or lot-by-lot inspection, sampling, and testing, which, in general, should be reserved for those foods that present, or have the potential to present, the highest food safety risk.
Provide estimates of population sizes and geographic distribution.
There are several gait scoring systems available.
WOAH may withdraw the endorsement of an official control programme if there is evidence of: – non-compliance with the timelines or performance indicators of the programme; or – significant problems with the quality of the Veterinary Services as described in Section 3 of the Terrestrial Code; or – an increase in the incidence or distribution of the disease that cannot be addressed by the programme.
Consider the below-mentioned sector groupings and outline any recent significant changes observed within the sector groupings (attach relevant documents if available): i) breeding stock equids; ii) competition horses; iii) leisure equids; iv) exhibition equids; v) working, transport and production equids (including donkeys, mules and hinnies).
9) The use of the PVS Tool is encouraged.
Based on the PVS Tool, WOAH has developed a capacity-building platform, the PVS Pathway, for the sustainable improvement of the compliance of a country's Veterinary Services with WOAH standards.
The evaluation of Veterinary Services can be performed by the country itself (self-evaluation), by another country or countries, or by WOAH experts under the auspices of WOAH as part of the PVS Pathway.
The role of the Veterinary Services in food safety is described in Chapter 6.2.
Where appropriate, results should be confirmed by an WOAH Reference Laboratory.
Only new liquid nitrogen should be used to fill or top up cryogenic tanks.
An alternative may be to test an aliquot of semen from the same collection date. c) Where natural service or fresh semen is used, donor sires should meet the health conditions set out in Chapter 4.7. as appropriate to the species.
It may also have adverse effects on embryo viability, for instance in the case of equine embryos where the embryonic capsule could be damaged by the enzyme.
The Veterinary Services should have knowledge of the variety of oocyte and embryo storage systems available and should have procedures in place for the safe and timely inspection and certification of these oocytes and embryos to ensure their viability.
5) If surrogate zonae are used, they should be from the same species and the oocytes or embryos from which they are obtained should be treated in the same manner as if they were in vivo derived or in vitro produced embryos intended for international movement.
The importing country may request that tests be carried out on certain samples or that embryos be treated to ensure that specified pathogenic agents are absent.
Recommendations regarding specific pathogenic agents to be tested for in different laboratory animal species have been published elsewhere.
Also note: Formalin is a dangerous chemical and as such the appropriate personal protective equipment should be used and safety training on the handling of this chemical should be provided.]
They should be used in such a manner as to exclude any risk of contaminating the equipment which could eventually affect the health of bees or adulterate the products of the hive.
The cessation of vaccination may require the revision of the contingency plan and enhanced biosecurity, sanitary measures and surveillance for early detection of disease.
However, depending on the disease and type of vaccine used, vaccination may mask underlying infections, affect disease surveillance and have implications for the movement of vaccinated animals and their products.
Learning from past outbreaks, from both epidemic or endemic situations, reviewing the response sequence and revising the methods are
When used, vector surveillance should be conducted in accordance with Chapter 1.5.
2) Products of animal origin intended for use in animal feeding, or for pharmaceutical or surgical or agricultural or industrial use, should be accompanied by an international veterinary certificate conforming with the models approved by WOAH. NB: FIRST ADOPTED IN 1968; MOST RECENT UPDATE ADOPTED IN 2014.
NB: FIRST ADOPTED IN 1968.
5) Animals, accompanied by a valid international veterinary certificate and found to be healthy by the Veterinary Authority at the border post, shall be permitted to be imported and transported in accordance with the requirements of the importing country to the point of destination.
Management may require other personnel health promotion activities, such as those mentioned in point 5 of Article 6.12.7.
f) Adequate equipment and space should be available both in the animal holding area and in the quarantine facility in general for the adequate decontamination and the proper disposal or processing and storing of all supplies and equipment used in the quarantine.
In addition to the passport, a separate veterinary certificate may be required by the importing country.
(3) Sexe : (4)Robe : Name: Sex: Colour: Nombre: Sexo: Color: (5) Race : (6) par : (7) et : (8) par : Breed: by: out of: by: Raza: por: y: por: (9) Date de naissance : (10) Lieu d'élevage : (11) Naisseur(s) : Date of foaling: Place where bred: Breeder(s): N° de identificación: Lugar de cría Criador(es):
resistance in the bacterial pathogen, in a larger population of animals, an active sampling programme should be implemented.
f) Hair or wool length should be considered in relation to the weather conditions expected during transport.
Unloading of hay, straw, other animal feed and litter may be restricted or prohibited by in transit countries.
Recommended methods of disposal are: 1) incineration to an ash; 2) heating at an internal temperature of at least of 100°C for 30 minutes, then disposal in a land fill site; 3) controlled burial in a land fill site.
Animals may be exposed to several hazards to animal welfare during lairage including: a) feed and water deprivation leading to prolonged hunger and thirst; b) absence of protection against adverse weather conditions, leading to thermal stress; c) sudden or excessive noises, including from personnel, facilities, equipment and gates, leading to fear; d) insufficient space to lie down and move freely leading to fatigue and aggressive behaviour; e) poor design and maintenance leading to distress and injuries; f) mixing of unfamiliar animals leading to aggressive behaviour or social stress; g) limited access to resources (e.g. drinkers, bedding) leading to aggressive behaviour; h) exposure to surfaces leading to injury or lameness (e.g. sharp, abrasive).
Education programmes in appropriate bite treatment, including post-exposure prophylaxis where rabies is a risk, are encouraged for all ages.
The following activities may be required as part of the implementation of the DPM measures described in Article 7.7.13.: – Dog capture and handling; – Dog housing; – Euthanasia.
During the conduct of husbandry procedures, personnel should be keenly aware of their potential impact on the animals’ welfare.
Indicators could include:
This does not exclude other measures being used when appropriate.
Human-animal interaction should be positive in order not to compromise the welfare of the working equid.
Some animals should be inspected more frequently, for example, farrowing sows, new born piglets, newly weaned pigs, newly-mixed gilts and sows, sick or injured pigs and those showing abnormal behaviours such as tail biting.
Ventilation fans, feeding machinery or other indoor or outdoor equipment should be constructed, placed, operated and maintained in such a way that they cause the least possible amount of noise.
After insertion of the rod or probe it should be promptly turned a minimum of four times in a centrifugal motion to ensure destruction of the brain tissue.
accurate targeting of the brain should be ensured; selected firearm and projectile should be suitable for the species, size and type of the reptile; equipment should be cleaned and stored following manufacturer's recommendations.
pithing should only be used in unconscious reptiles; movement of the pithing implement should ensure maximum destruction of brain tissue.
The product may be roasted, salted, and/or lime-juice treated.
The product may be presented in one or more of the following substyles: (a) Salted (b) Lime-juice treated
Pistachios may be designated as to size in accordance with the following Table: Designation No. of pistachios per 100 grams Small over 106 Medium 92 to 106 Large 81 to 91 Very Large 71 to 80 Extra Large under 71
The recognized practice of repacking quick-frozen products under controlled conditions is permitted.
Style Quick-frozen bilberries may be presented as free-flowing (i.e. as individual berries not adhering to one another) or non free-flowing (i.e. as a solid block).
Any presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that it: (i) meets all the requirements of this standard, and (ii) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
However, lot identification, and the name and address may be replaced by an identification mark, provided that such a mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents.
However, animals such as guide dogs may be allowed but precautions should be taken to avoid food contamination; and immediately taking all practicable measures to get rid of the identified pest or harbourage sites and to prevent re-infestation.
Market authorities can support regular monitoring activities.
Each market, whether in permanent or temporary premises, should be encouraged to form a stakeholder committee consisting of FBOs, competent authorities, consumers associations, and market authorities, where they exist, to advise on regular market cleaning, repairs, and access to critical services like potable water and waste management.
Incentive-based programmes can be used to facilitate and improve FBOs and consumer food safety practices.
Doogh may be produced and displayed as powder (dried doogh) for special applications and demands.
However, lot identification, and the name and address of the manufacturer, packer, distributor or importer may be replaced by an identification mark, provided that such a mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents.
They may be purified by washing with water, settling, filtering and centrifuging only.
They may have been purified by washing with water, settling, filtering and centrifuging only.
However, lot identification and the name and address of the manufacturer or packer may be replaced by an identification mark, provided that such a mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents.
A product, which meets the essential quality and composition factors but does not meet these supplementary factors, may still conform to the standard.
This Code should also be used in combination with the Principles for the Establishment of and Application of Microbiological Criteria for Foods (CXG 21-1997).
Other ingredients may be added to assist the fermentation process.
Acidity regulators, colours, preservatives, and sweeteners used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192 -1995) in food category 12.6.4 (Clear sauces (e.g., fish sauce) and its parent food categories and only certain Table 3 acidity regulators, emulsifiers, flavour enhancers, and stabilizers as indicated in Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192 - 1995) are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this Standard.
The name of the product may be preceded or followed by the common or usual name of the fish.
However, lot identification, and the name and address of the manufacturer or packer may be replaced by an identification mark provided that such a mark is clearly identified with the accompanying document.
Some berry fruits such as gooseberries may be presented as firm ripe.
When sized in accordance with existing trade practices, the package may be labelled with the size and method used.
Produce that fails conformity assessment, may be allowed to be re-sorted and brought into conformity in accordance with the relevant provisions in the Guidelines for Food Import Control Systems (CXG 47-2003).
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality, the flesh and presentation in the package: • very slight defects in shape; • very slight leakage of juice, depending on the species and variety; • slight defects in skin and colouring, depending on the species and variety; and • very slight bruising
The following defects may be allowed, provided the berry fruits retain their essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: • slight leakage of juice, depending on the species and variety; • slight defects in shape; • defects in skin and colouring, depending on the species and variety; and • slight bruising.
For all classes (if sized), a maximum of 10 percent by number or weight of berries not satisfying the size indicated is allowed.
Five percent allowed by number or weight, of berries not satisfying the requirements of this class, but meeting those of class I. Included within this tolerance, is 1 percent tolerance for decay, soft rot and/or internal breakdown.
Included within this tolerance, is 2 percent tolerance for decay, soft rot and/or internal breakdown.
Included therein within this tolerance, is 3 percent tolerance for decay, soft rot and/or internal breakdown.
However, a mixture of berries of distinctly different species and/or varieties may be packed together, as long as they are uniform in quality and each species and/or variety being from the same origin.
“Wild” or equivalent denomination may be included, where appropriate.
Until both lists are completed, practitioners may find the lists and data referred to in the bibliography provide relevant guidance.
Ships and storage tanks used for high-quality products or for long-storage periods should preferably have facilities for sparging and blanketing with inert gas of appropriate purity.
When clearing pipelines in such climates, steam may be used.
In addition, authorities may wish to see evidence of previous cargo details.
This treatment is permitted only if the other natural organoleptic characteristics are not modified.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: - slight defect in shape; - slight defect in colouring; - slight skin defects occurring during the formation of the fruit, such as silver scurfs, russets,etc.; - slight healed defects due to a mechanical cause such as hail damage, rubbing, damage from handling, etc. The defects must not, in any case, affect the pulp of the fruit.
The following defects, however, may be allowed, provided the oranges retain their essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation: - defect in shape; - defect in colouring; - skin defects occurring during the formation of the fruit, such as silver scurfs, russets, etc.; - healed defects due to a mechanical cause such as hail damage, rubbing, damage from handling, etc.; - rough skin;
This type of presentation is only allowed for Class I and II; (c) In individual packages for direct consumer sale of a weight less than 5 kg, either made up by number or by weight of fruit.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package (or lot for produce presented in bulk) shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to the name of the variety and/or commercial type.
Identification code (optional).
Name of the variety and/or commercial type (optional).
Any presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that it:  meets all requirements of this standard; and  is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer. The bivalve molluscs may be packed by weight, count, count per unit of weight, volume or per package.
In addition to the specified labelling designations above, the usual or common trade names of the variety may be added so long as it is not misleading to the consumer in the country in which the product will be distributed.
Date of minimum durability may be replaced by the statement “Bivalves must be alive when sold”.
Only the use of the following additives is permitted in raw bivalve molluscs: Antioxidants For chilled shucked molluscs any antioxidant listed in food category 09.1.2 (Fresh Molluscs, crustaceans and echinoderms) of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995).
The bivalve molluscs may be packed by weight, count, count per unit of weight, volume or per package.
Slight defects, however, may be allowed, affecting an area of up to 2.0% of the product surface, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package.
Defects, however, may be allowed, affecting an area of up to 3.0% of the product surface, provided the chilli peppers retain their essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation.
For all classes, 10% by number or weight of chilli peppers corresponding to the size immediately above and/or below that indicated on the package.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and the variety and may be labelled as to the level of pungency.
The following slight defects, however, may b e allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: ­ slight defects in shape, i.e. lightly marked longitudinal grooves and slight depressions; ­ slight defects in colouring, not exceeding 25% of the total surface area; ­ slight skin defects due to scarring, not exceeding a total of 3 cm2. The defects must not, in any case, affect the pulp of the fruit.
For all classes, 10% by number or weight of chayotes corresponding to the size immediately above or below that indicated on the package.
The use of materials, particularly of paper or stamps bearing trade specifications is allowed, provided the printing or labelling has been done with non-toxic ink or glue.
Identification code (optional) 2.
Subject to the provisions of this standard, Codex standards for individual varieties of whey cheeses may contain provisions which are more specific than those in this standard.
Food additives listed in Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) in Food Category 01.6.3 (Whey cheese) and 01.6.6 (Whey protein cheese) may be used in foods subject to this standard.
The product obtained through the coagulation of whey may either be ripened or unrip ened.
Only for use in products obtained by coagulation of whey: – Sodium chloride – Starter cultures of harmless lactic acid bacteria Only for use in products obtained through the concentration of whey by heat treatment – Sugars (limited by GMP)
Unripened whey cheese obtained through the concentration of whey may be designated according to the fat content as provided in Section 7.2.
For cheeses obtained from the concentration of whey, the declaration of milk fat content may be combined with an indication of the fat content as follows: Fat on the dry basis1 Creamed whey cheese minimum 33% Whey cheese minimum 10% and less than 33% Skimmed whey cheese less than 10%
Produce that fail conformity assessment, may be allowed to be resorted and brought into conformity in accordance with the relevant provisions in the Guidelines for Food Import Control Systems (CXG 47-2003).
However, uniformity in size in sales packages up to 5 kg net weight may be restricted to a maximum of 30 mm between the smallest and the largest tuber.
The visible part of the contents of the package (or lot for produce presented in the bulk transport vehicle) must be representative of the entire contents. However, a mixture of distinctly different ware potatoes of different skin colours (except green) may be packed together in a sales package, provided they are uniform in quality and, for each variety concerned, in origin.
For produce transported in bulk the se particulars must appear on a document accompanying the good, and attached in a visible position in the transport vehicle, unless the document is replaced by an electronic solution in that case the identification should be machine readable and easily accessible.
It is recommended that the produce covered by the provisions of this Standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene(C XC 1-1969), Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003), and other relevant Codex texts such as Codes of Hygienic Practice and Codes of Practice.
Identification code (optional) 5.
The shape of the tuber may be marked (optional) on the label such as oval, round and long.
Only clean, sound coconut meat should be permitted for further processing.
The packaging material should be approved by the official agency and, for example, may comprise multi-wall
The following species may be used:
For further information on cleaning and disinfection procedures see the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC-1969).
More detailed requirements for the construction and operation of a freezer store are given in the Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products (CXC 52-2003).
Comparative claims should be permitted subject to the following conditions and based on the food as sold, taking into account further preparation required for consumption according to the instructions for use on the label:
These may be developed based on evidence of consumer use and understanding.
Claims that relate to dietary guidelines or “healthy diets” should be permitted subject to the following conditions:
Any presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that it: meets all requirements of this standard; and is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
Antioxidants used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CODEX STAN 192 -1995) in food category 09.2.1 (Frozen fish, fish fillets, and fish products, including mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms) and its parent food categories are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this Standard.
Expression of uncertainty or variability in risk estimates may be qualitative or quantitative, but should be quantified to the extent that is scientifically achievable.
Additional outputs of a risk assessment, which would have been defined in the initiation of the risk assessment, can include evaluation of the effect of different risk management options on the estimated health risk.
Desiccated coconut may be sized according to their granulometry as follows:
It can be purified by washing with water, settling, filtering, and centrifuging.
Lard subject to processing may contain refi ned lard, lard stearin and hydrogenated lard, or be subject to processes of modification provided that it is clearly labelled.
Rendered pork fat subject to processing may al so contain refined lard, refined rendered pork fat, hydrogenated lard, hydrogenated rendered pork fat, lard stearin and rendered pork fat stearin provided that it is clearly labelled.
Edible tallow subject to processing may contain refined edible tallow, provided that it is clearly labelled.
Antifoaming agents, antioxidants and colours used in accordance with Table 1 and Table 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)1 in food category 02.1.3 (Lard, tallow, fish oil, and other animal fats) are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this standard.
Samsø intended for further processing need not exhibit the same degree of ripening when justified through technical and/or trade needs.
– Starter cultures of harmless lactic acid and/or flavour producing bacteria and cultures of other harmless micro-organisms; – Rennet or other safe and suitable coagulating enzymes; – Sodium chloride and potassium chloride as a salt substitute; – Potable water; – Safe and suitable enzymes to enhance the ripening process; – Safe and suitable processing aids; – Rice, corn and potato flours and starches: Notwithstanding the provisions in the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978), these substances can be used in the same function as anti-caking agents for treatment of the surface of cut, sliced, and shredded products only, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by Good Manufacturing Practice, taking into account any use of the anti-caking agents listed in Section 4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.7.1 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the date of manufacture may be declared instead of the minimum durability information, provided that the product is not intended to be purchased as such by the final consumer.
If not homogeneous, a stratified sample may be used.
Sections 0 and 02 provide further guidance regarding the inspection of inhomogeneous lots consisting of bulk materials or discrete items, respectively.
These plans can be used for either isolated lots or a continuing series of lots that consist of either discrete items or are bulk materials.
These plans have the advantage, compared to the use of individual plans, of allowing better control of PR, of incorrectly rejecting lots of good quality.
The advantages of variables sampling plans are: they offer the same protection with a smaller sample size than that required for attributes plans ; there is feedback of data on the process which produced the units; there is more information available in waiver situations; and the extent of conformity of each unit is taken into account in the application of the plan.
Acceptance sampling plans can be designed to allow for non-negligible analytical measurement uncertainty and inspection error.
In this sense, matrix effects (or a  92matrix bias 93) may be observed.
ISO 5725-3 13 includes other designs, which allow a separate estimation of repeatability precision, intermediate precision (factorial effects) and residual laboratory bias .
Go to step 2 Measurements (variables) Go to step 3 Help on attributes data Help on variables data
Help on design of attributes plans
Specification limits may be expressed as a minimum or a maximum limit (or both) applied to either the overall distribution of the characteristic in the lot, e.g. the percentage nonconforming quality level, or to the average level.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package:
Identification code (optional)2.
- Class; - Size (size code or lenght range in centimetres); - Number of units (optional); - Net weight (optional).
It is recommended that the product covered by the provisions of this Standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), and other relevant Codex texts such as Codes of Hygienic Practice and Codes of Practice.
However, the government may appoint such an organization as a National Codex Committee.
Such a consultative group should provide important benefits for the government so as to assist in ensuring a safe supply of food to consumers while at the same time maximizing the opportunities for industry development and expansion of international trade.
The recruitment of such persons with special qualifications can bring expertise to the National Codex Committee which otherwise may not be available.
Other sub-committees or working groups on particular subjects may be set up according to the country’s interest.
Organization structure of office of NCC may be similar to organization structure of the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
There may be need for translation into local language of some of the important publications so that the population at large can gain from the knowledge thus made available.
Based on the evaluations by the JECFA, the Codex Alimentarius may consider proposals for specific risk management measures for certain flavouring substances or components of natural flavouring complexes to ensure consumer protection.
The lobster may be packed by count per unit of weight or per package or within a stated weight range.
Antioxidants, humectants and preservatives used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CODEX STAN 192-1995) in food category 09.2.1 (Frozen fish, fish fillets, and fish products, including mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms) and its parent food categories are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this Standard.
In addition to appropriate drying, the finished product may be: (a) treated with chemical preservatives (including fumigants) approved by the Codex Alimentarius Commission, provided the residue levels resulting from such treatment do not exceed the tolerances, as referenced in the commodity standards; and/or (b) heat processed; and/or (c) packed in hermetically sealed containers so that the product will remain safe and will not spoil under normal non-refrigerated storage conditions.
Water used for conveying raw materials into the plant should be from such a source or suitably treated as not to constitute a public health hazard and should be used only by permission of the official agency having jurisdiction.
Cold storage can be used, either to prevent infestation in localities where insects are likely to be present in ordinary storage or to prevent insects damaging the product.
Calcium hydroxide √ (1979) JECFA (1975), FCC, USP, Ph Eur, BP √ √ √ √ √ 1.8 Calcium oxide 2 (1979) JECFA (1975), FCC, DAC - 2 - 2 2 2 1.9 Calcium dihydrogen phosphate (Calcium phosphate, monobasic) 2 (1997) JECFA (1996), Ph Int, FCC 2 2 2 2 2 2 1.10 Calcium hydrogen phosphate (Calcium phosphate, dibasic) 2 (1979) JECFA (1975), FCC, USP, Ph Eur, BP, DAB 2 2 2 2 2 2 1.11 Tricalcium diphosphate (Calcium phosphate, tribasic) JECFA (1973), Ph Int, FCC, BP 2 2 2 2 2 2 1.12 Calcium sulphate 2 (1979) JECFA (1975), Ph Int, FCC, Ph Eur (dihydrate), DAB - 2 - - - 2 As far as applicable, also the free, hydrated and anhydrous forms of amino acids, and the hydrochloride, sodium, and potassium salts of amino acids may be used for FSMP.
FCC (vitamin A), USP, Ph Eur (vitamin A) FCC, USP, Ph Eur, BP, DAB only for improving the nutritional quality of the protein (when the protein is nutritionally inadequate for its intended use) √ only for improving the nutritional quality of the protein (when the protein is nutritionally inadequate for its intended use) √
FCC (vitamin A), USP, Ph Eur (vitamin A), Jap Food Stan FCC, USP, Ph Eur, BP, DAB √ √
FCC (vitamin A), USP, Ph Eur (vitamin A), Jap Food Stan FCC, USP, Ph Eur √ √
FCC, USP √ √
FCC, USP, Ph Eur, DAB √ √
MI, FCC, USP √ √
MI √ √
DAB √ √
FCC, Ph Eur √ √
In addition, the following food additives may be used as nutrient carriers:
The food additive s that have been allocated an ADI by JECFA, may be found at: Uhttp://www.fao.org/ag/agn/agns/jecfa_index_en.aspU and Uhttp://www.who.int/ipcs/food/jecfa/en/U JECFA specifications adopted by the Codex Alimentarius Commission are listed in CAC/MISC 6 “Codex Specifications for Food Additives” that can be found on the Codex website at: CAC/MISC 6.
Microbiological criteria can be applied, but are not limited to, to the following: Bacteria, viruses, moulds, yeasts, and algae; Protozoa and helminths; Their toxins/metabolites; and Their markers associated with pathogenicity (e.g. virulence-related genes or plasmids) or other traits (e.g. anti-microbial resistance genes) where/when linked to the presence of viable cells where appropriate.
Alternatives to microbiological limits m and M may be used in applying microbiological criteria to other risk management metrics or the ALOP.
Compositing may be considered in the case of presence/absence testing within a two-class sampling plan, as long as it is ensured that the result of testing will not be affected when compared to testing of individual analytical units.
37. Web-based tools for evaluation of sampling plans developed by FAO and WHO through JEMRA or by others can be utilized to evaluate sampling plans under consideration.
Other actions taken may include more frequent sampling, inspection and audits, fines or official suspension of operations.
9. The recognition of equivalence of inspection and certification should be facilitated where it can be objectively demonstrated that there is an appropriate system for inspection and certification of food by the exporting country in accordance with these guidelines.
In conducting a systems -based audit, the audit may involve examination of the elements as contained in Section 6, Inspection and Certification System Infrastructure or other elements as appropriate.
Powdered sugar and powdered dextrose may have up to 5% starch added if no anticaking agent is used.
