For further information on cleaning and disinfection procedures see the General Principles of Food Hygiene referred to in Sub -Section 4.4.1.1 of this Code.
However, non-potable water may, with specific acceptance by the official agency having jurisdiction, be used in certain food handling As stated in Sub-Section 7.3 of the principal document.
The instrument may be connected to the retort by means of a gauge cock and syphon.
This may be a recording-controlling instrument when combined with a recording thermometer.
Other vent piping arrangements and operating procedures which differ from the above specifications may be used, provided that there is evidence that they accomplish adequate venting.
A pressure recorder device is needed and may be combined with a pressure controller.
Technically appropriate anti-corrosion agents may also be incorporated in dipping solutions.
ANALYTICAL METHODOLOGY FOR pH MEASUREMENT2 Methods that may be used to determine pH or acidity for acidified, fermented and pickled food include, but are not limited to the following:
This method may be used in lieu of potentiometric method if the pH is 4.0 or lower.
The following guidelines, though not all inclusive, should assist this identification.
Tests or measurements, e.g., tap -test, countersink or centre depth can be used to give comparative measures of the internal vacuum with respect to a normal can.
It is sometimes helpful to leak test cans from the same lot which are not suspect
However, lot identification, and the name and address of the manufacturer, packer, distributor or importer may be replaced by an identification mark, provided that such a mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Container of Foods (CXS 346-2021).
Colours and preservatives used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) in food category 0 1.6.2.1 (Ripened cheese, includes rind) are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this Standard.
Dry, may be coated with vegetable oil, food grade wax or plastic materials.
Rennet or other suitable coagulating enzymes; with the possible addition of a lactic acid starter.
After the curd which may be lightly salted is shaped into forms, the cheese may again be salted in brine, dry salted or both; held in a cool and well aerated or temperature controlled room for not less than 6 months.
A “coined” or “fanciful” name, may be used however, provided it is not misleading and is accompanied by the phrase “Extra Hard Grating Cheese”.
All milled cereals, roots and tubers and their derived products suitable for human consumption may be used provided that they are processed in such a way that the fibre content is reduced, when necessary, and that the effects of antinutritional factors such as phytates, tannins or other phenolic materials, lectins, tr ypsin, and chymotrypsin inhibitors which can lower the protein quality and digestibility, amino acid bioavailability and mineral absorption are removed or reduced, whilst retaining maximum nutrient value.
The addition of limiting amino acids, solely in the L-form, shall be permitted only in amounts necessary to improve the protein quality of the RUTF.
Other varieties including Antillean/West Indian/Guatemalan may show a lower dry matter content.
Avocados can be sized through one of the following options: (a) By weight of the fruit, in accordance with the following table: Size Code Weight (in grams) 2 > 1220 4 781 – 1220 6 576 – 780 8 456 – 576 10 364 – 462 12 300 – 371 14 258 – 313 16 227 – 274 18 203 – 243 20 184 – 217 22 165 – 196 24 151 – 175 26 144 – 157 28 134 – 147 30 123 – 137 32 80 – 123 (only Hass type)
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearan ce of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: - slight defects in shape and colouring; - slight skin defects (corkiness, healed lenticels) and sunburn; the maximum total area should not exceed 4 cm2. The defects must not, in any case, affect the flesh of the fruit. The stalk, if present, may be slightly damaged.
The stalk, if present, may be damaged.
For all classes, 10% by number or weight of avocados corresponding to the size immediately above or below that indicated on the package.
Included therein shall be allowed not more than 1% for avocados affected by decay.
For further information on cleaning and disinfection procedures, see Annex I of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/VOL. A-Ed. 2, 2nd Rev. (1985)).
If the result of this test is positive, a sample can be further examined for smoke point, free fatty acids and especially for polar compounds.
The temperature of the cooked-chilled foods should be maintained at 4°C but may rise to 7°C for a short period during transport.
The temperature of the cooked-frozen food should be maintained at or below -18°C, but may rise to -12°C for a short period of time during transport.
It is recommended that during storage, transportation, distribution and retail, the product be handled in accordance with the provisions in the Code of Practice for the Processing and Handling of Quick-Frozen Foods (CXC 8-1976).2
Quick-frozen blueberries may be presented as free-flowing (i.e. as individual berries not adhering to one another) or non-free flowing (i.e. as a solid block).
Establishments engaged in aseptic processing and packaging are encouraged to develop and operate under a HACCP plan.
However, non-potable water may, with specific acceptance by the official agency having jurisdiction, be used in certain food handling areas provided this does not constitute a hazard to health.
For plastic containers with metal ends, consult the container manufacturer.
The identification of code lots on shipping cases and trays is desirable.
If the sterilization of packaging material is done completely or partially off-site, it may be sterilized using the heat of extrusion for packaging material or use of a physical treatment such as steam sterilization or irradiation.
Anticaking agents may be used in the powdered form of the product in accordance with Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995).1
- Of other styles distinct from those above, provided they are labelled accordingly.
They may be purged in clean sea water and/or drained prior to packaging for direct human consumption or for further processing as in II-2.2.
The abalone may be packed by weight, count, count per unit of weight or volume per package.
It is recommended that the products covered by provisions of this Standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969), the Code of Practice for Fish and Fishery Products (CAC/RCP 52-2003) and other relevant Codex Codes of Hygienic Practice and Codes of Practice.
The epithelium, mucous or radula may be removed.
However, lot identification, and the name and address may be replaced by an identification mark, provided that such a mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents.”
The following milk products are allowed for protein adjustment purposes: – Milk retentate: Milk retentate is the product obtained by concentrating milk protein by ultra-filtration of milk, partly skimmed milk, or skimmed milk; – Milk permeate: Milk permeate is the product obtained by removing milk protein and milk fat from milk, partly skimmed milk, or skimmed milk by ultra-filtration; and – Lactose1
The name of the food shall be: – Blend of Evaporated Skimmed Milk and Vegetable Fat; or – Reduced Fat Blend of Evaporated Skimmed Milk and Vegetable Fat Other names may be used if allowed by national legislation in the country of retail sale.
Notwithstanding the provision of Section 4.2.1 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) milk products used only for protein adjustment need not be declared.
The establishment of bilateral or multilateral agreements, such as mutual recognition agreements may provide the logical basis for discontinuing with the issuance of certificates.
Additional examinations, analytical results, evaluation of quality assurance procedures or product specifications may also be attested to.
Its responsibility may include the management of official systems of inspection or certification at the regional or local level.
could be cartons, boxes, bags, cases, drums, barrels, pallets, etc.
Any presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that it: (i) meets all requirements of this standard; and (ii) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
Substitutions can be tried after the method is working within your laboratory.
Calibration curves and comparison with standards may suffice.
Control charts may be used to check for trends in performance of the method and to ensure that statistical control is maintained.
Derivatisation may also be used for confirmation of residues detected by HPLC (paragraph 4.6.5.4).
The following proposals for LCLs in various samples may be useful in enabling the residue chemist to devise suitable methods.
The conversion products possess different chromatographic characteristics from the parent pesticide and may be used for confirmatory purposes if compared with reaction products using standard pesticides.
In such cases pre-separation of specific residues may be carried out using TLC, HPLC or column fractionation prior to reaction.
The test may be combined with the determination of calibration function and matrix effect (see. 1.7)
The test may be combined with testing stability
See other options in Table 6.
See 1.5 See 1.5 See 1.5 See 1.5 See 1.5 Only if information is not available
See 1.8 See 1.8 See 1.8 See 1.8 See 1.8 Only if information is not available
See 1.1 See 1.1 See 1.1 See 1.1 This testing may be omitted if full information on analyte stability is provided with the method or if the method is replacing a previously used method for the analyte and the stability information has been previously generated for the previous method.
The qualitative and quantitative confirmation may also be carried out by the same method, when appropriate.
The detection test mixture may have to be column and detector specific.
Where this is not available, a reference procedure may be one that, in theory, should be highly efficient and is fundamentally different from that under test.
In order to reduce acrylamide levels in final products, manufacturers could investigate the effect of different spices in their own recipes.
Similarly, the consumer could be advised to aim for a light brown colour when toasting bread and related products.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.7.1 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the date of manufacture may be declared instead of the minimum durability information, provided that the product is not intended to be purchased as such by the final consumer.
A statement may be provided on the product information e-page prior to the point of e-commerce sale to inform the consumer about the relation between the best before, best quality before, use-by, or expiration date and the product shipping date or at the point of delivery.
Acidity regulators and sequestrants used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) in food category 09.4 (Fully preserved, including canned or fermented fish and fish products, including mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms) and only certain Table 3 acidity regulators and flavour enhancers as indicated in Table 3 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this Standard.
(c) Brine Injection is the process for directly injecting brine into the fish flesh and is permitted as a part of the heavy salting process.
any other presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that it (i) is sufficiently distinctive from the other forms of presentation laid down in this Standard; (ii) meets all other requirements of this Standard; and (iii) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
The term "wet salted fish" can only be used for fish fully saturated with salt.
– Starter cultures of harmless lactic acid and/or flavour producing bacteria and cultures of other harmless micro-organisms, including Geotrichum candidum, Brevibacterium linens, and yeast; – Rennet or other safe and suitable coagulating enzymes; – Sodium chloride and potassium chloride as a salt substitute; – Potable water; – Safe and suitable enzymes to enhance the ripening process; – Safe and suitable processing aids; – Rice, corn and potato flours and starches: Notwithstanding the provisions in the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978), these substances can be used in the same function as anti-caking agents for treatment of the surface of cut, sliced, and shredded products only, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by good manufacturing practice, taking into account any use of the anti-caking agents listed in Section 4.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package (or lot for produce presented in bulk) shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type.
They may be suitably dried if necessary.
These grains may be dull, shrivelled, swollen, puffed, or bloated in appearance
Information on the amounts of essential and non-essential amino acids and/or essential fatty acids may be expressed similarly in metric units as appropriate.
In addition, where it is appropriate the quantity of nutrients may be expressed in terms of percentages of the relevant internationally recognized recommended daily allowances.
In countries where serving sizes are normally used, the information described in Sections 4.2.2 to 4.2.4 may be given only per serving as quantified on the label or per portion provided that the number of servings or portions contained in the package is stated.
2 This information may be provided separately from the package.
This method can be applied for the analysis of dried ginseng samples.
Ginseng products covered by this Standard may be as follows:
Styles should be permitted provided that the product meets all relevant requirements of the Standard and is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
The product may be classified into one of such product types that have the main root and/or lateral roots or that are powdered or sliced.
The product may be also presented as a powdered type through spray- or freeze-drying.
The products may have a clear marking to indicate that they are not intended for medicinal purposes, including other labeling requirements stipulated by the country where ginseng products are distributed.
Processors should consider storing oil seeds for milling at cool temperatures (e.g. < 25°C) and dry conditions (optimally <7% moisture content) to help ensure low levels of lipase.
Use of more pH-neutral clays reduces the acidity and potential to form 3-MCPDE in palm oil, some seed oils, and fish oil.
Any damaged, wetted or stained cartons previously separated from the lot during the overview inspection may be sorted separately and given a 100% inspection to identify the unacceptable defects present.
(a) in accordance with the provisions of Codex standards or guidelines for foods as developed by the Committee on Nutrition and Foods for Special Dietary Uses and follow the principles set forth in these guidelines. or, (b) in the absence of an applicable Codex standard or guideline, permitted under the laws of the country in which the food is distributed.
5.1 The following claims should be permitted subject to the particular condition attached to each:
The use of these terms should be consistent with the prohibitions set out in Section 3. (iv) Religious or Ritual Preparation (e.g. Halal, Kosher) of a food may be claimed provided that the food conforms to the requirements of the appropriate religious or ritual authorities (see also the General Guidelines for the Use of the Term Halal, CAC/GL 24-1997). (v) Claims that a food has special characteristics when all such foods have the same characteristics, if this fact is apparent in the claim. (vi) Claims which highlight the absence or non-addition of particular substances to food may be used provided that they are not misleading and provided that the substance: (a) is not subject to specific requirements in any Codex Standard or Guideline; (b) is one which consumers would normally expect to find in the food; (c) has not been substituted by another giving the food equivalent characteristics unless the nature of the substitution is clearly stated with equal prominence; and (d) is one whose presence or addition is permitted in the food. (vii) Claims which highlight the absence or non-addition of one or more nutrients should be regarded as nutrition claims and therefore should invoke mandatory nutrient declaration in accordance with the Codex Guidelines on Nutrition Labelling.
It will be useful for all the three major stakeholders (vendors / food handlers, consumers and the relevant authorities) who need to be involved to make street foods hygienic.
Such rules and regulations can either be elaborated separately or incorporated into existing food regulations.
Where feasible, disposable material should be used.
Personnel handling product at display and consumer purchase, as well as servers in restaurants and other food service operations, should be knowledgeable about the allergens in products; alternatively, the personnel should know how to obtain the information about the allergens in products rapidly - especially when the food does not contain labelling that identifies the allergens.
Occasional product testing for undeclared allergens may also be considered as appropriate for verification.
Consideration could be given to changing packaging features such as colour when a new allergen is included in the formulation.
Records could include those for: suppliers’ allergen management (e.g. questionnaire, survey and/or an audit to assess the allergen profile of foods produced at the supplier’s site and the supplier’s allergen management plan, including allergen cross-contact controls and cleaning schedules); suppliers’ allergen information / specification; procedures for handling and storage of allergens; label review; label application; scheduling; batching (putting together the ingredients in a food); rework;
Records could include those for: 2 allergenic ingredients associated with each menu item; 2 label printing and application, where feasible; 2 cleaning (SOPs); 2 SOPs for handling orders for customers with food allergies; and 2 training (personnel trained, type of training, and date of training).
Provision of information on the likelihood of allergen cross-contact, should be considered in these instances (e.g. allergen alert signage or symbol/icons).
– Sodium chloride.
Product category Additive functional class Stabilizers(a) Acidity regulators(a) Thickeners(a) and emulsifiers(a) Packing gases and propellants Prepackaged liquid cream (2.4.1): X X X – Whipping cream (2.4.2): X X X – Cream packed under pressure (2.4.3): X X X X Whipped cream (2.4.4): X X X X Fermented cream (2.4.5): X X X –
270 Lactic acid, L-, D- and DL- GMP 325 Sodium lactate GMP 326 Potassium lactate GMP 327 Calcium lactate GMP 330 Citric acid GMP 333 Calcium citrates GMP 500(i) Sodium carbonate GMP 500(ii) Sodium hydrogen carbonate GMP 500(iii) Sodium sesquicarbonate GMP 501(i) Potassium carbonate GMP 501(ii) Potassium hydrogen carbonate GMP
170(i) Calcium carbonate GMP 331(i) Sodium dihydrogen citrate GMP 331(iii) Trisodium citrate GMP 332(i) Potassium dihydrogen citrate GMP 332(ii) Tripotassium citrate GMP 516 Calcium sulphate GMP 339(i) Monosodium dihydrogen phosphate 1100 mg/kg expressed as phosphorus 339(ii) Disodium hydrogen phosphate 339(iii) Trisodium phosphate 340(i) Potassium dihydrogen phophate 340(ii) Dipotassium hydrogen phosphate
340(iii) Tripotassium phosphate 341(i) Calcium dihydrogen phophate 341(ii) Calcium hydrogen phosphate 341(iii) Tricalcium phosphate 450(i) Disodium diphosphate 450(ii) Trisodium diphosphate 450(iii) Tetrasodium diphosphate 450(v) Tetrapotassium diphosphate 450(vi) Calcium diphosphate 450(vii) Calcium dihydrogen diphosphate 451(i) Pentasodium triphosphate 451(ii) Pentapotassium triphosphate 452(i) Sodium polyphosphate 452(ii) Potassium polyphosphate 452(iii) Sodium calcium polyphosphate 452(iv) Calcium polyphosphate 452(v) Ammonium polyphosphate 400 Alginic acid GMP 401 Sodium alginate GMP 402 Potassium alginate GMP 403 Ammonium alginate GMP 404 Calcium alginate GMP 405 Propylene glycol alginate 5 000 mg/kg 406 Agar GMP 407 Carrageenan GMP 407a Processed euchema seaweed (PES) GMP 410 Carob bean gum GMP 412 Guar gum GMP 414 Gum arabic (Acacia gum) GMP 415 Xanthan gum GMP
322(i) Lecithin GMP 432 Polyixyethylene (20) sorbitan monolaurate 1 000 mg/kg 433 Polyixyethylene (20) sorbitan monooleate 434 Polyixyethylene (20) sorbitan monopalmitate 435 Polyixyethylene (20) sorbitan monostearate
440 Pectins GMP 460(i) Microcrystalline cellulose (Cellulose gel) GMP 460(ii) Powdered cellulose GMP 461 Methyl cellulose GMP 463 Hydroxypropyl cellulose GMP 464 Hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose GMP 465 Methyl ethyl cellulose GMP 466 Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose (Cellulose gum) GMP 472e Diacetyltartaric and fatty acid esters of glycerol 5 000 mg/kg 508 Potassium chloride GMP 509 Calcium chloride GMP 1410 Monostarch phosphate GMP 1412 Distarch phosphate GMP 1413 Phosphated distarch phosphate GMP 1414 Acetylated distarch phosphate GMP 1420 Starch acetate GMP 1422 Acetylated distarch adipate GMP 1440 Hydroxypropyl starch GMP 1442 Hydroxypropyl distarch phosphate GMP 1450 Starch sodium octenyl succinate GMP
In addition, labelling statements, such as product designation of fermented creams and content claims, may include reference to the terms “ Acidophilus”, “Kefir”, and “Kumys”, as appropriate, provided that the product has been fermented by the corresponding specific starter culture(s) specified in Section 2.1 of the Standard for Fermented Milks (CXS 243-2003), and provided that the product complies with those compositional microbiological criteria that are applicable to the corresponding fermented milk as specified in Section 3.3 of that Standard.
Where the fat content of the product is indicated by a numerical value in accordance with Section 7.1.2, such indication may constitute the fat declaration, provided that the indication includes any additional information as required above.
During the last decade, basic and applied research has demonstrated that one of these systems, the lactoperoxidase/thiocyanate/hydrogen peroxide system (LP-system) can be used successfully for this purpose.
Use of the LP-system in areas which currently lack an adequate infrastructure for collection of liquid milk, would ensure the production of milk as a safe and wholesome food, which otherwise would be virtually impossible.
For information where sodium percarbonate could be obtained commercially, please apply to IDF General Secretariat, Silver Building, Blvd. A. Reyers 70/B, B-1030 Brussels, Belgium.
Only a product complying with the provisions in a Codex standard for a milk product may be named as specified in the Codex standard for the product concerned.
Milk and milk products may be named as specified in the Codex Standard for the relevant milk product when made from recombined or reconstituted milk or from recombination or reconstitution of milk products in accordance with Section 4.1.2 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), if the consumer would not be misled or confused.
A product complying with the description in Section 2.3 may be named with the term “milk” or the name specified for a milk product as appropriate, provided that a clear description of the other characterizing ingredient(s) (such as flavouring foods, spices, herbs and flavours) is given in close proximity to the name.
Tilsiter intended for further processing need not exhibit the same degree of ripening when justified through technical and/or trade needs.
– Starter cultures of harmless lactic acid and/ or flavour producing bacteria and cultures of other harmless micro-organisms; – Rennet or other safe and suitable coagulating enzymes; – Sodium chloride and potassium chloride as a salt substitute; – Potable water; – Safe and suitable enzymes to enhance the ripening process; – Safe and suitable processing aids; – Rice, corn and potato flours and starches: Notwithstanding the provisions in the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978), these substances can be used in the same function as anti-caking agents for treatment of the surface of cut, sliced, and shredded products only, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by good manufacturing practice, taking into account any use of the anti-caking agents listed in Section 4.
Optional ingredients as listed in Section 3.1.2 may be added provided they all meet GMP.
When the VPP is subjected to a texturization pr ocess, the name of the product may include an appropriate qualifying term such as “textured” or “structured”.
The reason for rejection may include:
However, the word “cheese” may be omitted in the designation of an individual cheese variety reserved by a Codex standard for individual cheeses, and, in the absence thereof, a variety name specified in the national legislation of the country in which the product is sold, provided that the omission does not create an erroneous impression regarding the character of the food.
Materials remaining from the previous crops and foreign materials should be cleaned and if it is needed the field can be fallowed in the following few years.
To make the removal of caprifigs easier, it is recommended to place caprifigs in nets or bags.
Therefore, cold storage is recommended.
The following may be added: a) milk and/or dry milk solids obtained by evaporation, in such proportion that the finished product does not contain more than 5% dry milk solids ; b) almonds, hazelnuts and other nut varieties, either whole or b roken, in such quantities that, together with the ground hazelnuts, they do not exceed 60% of the total weight of the product.
The authorities having jurisdiction may prescribe the specific manner in which this declaration shall be made.
Products not defined under this standard, and where the chocolate taste is solely derived from non-fat cocoa solids, can carry the term “chocolate” in their designations in accordance with the provisions or customs applicable in the country in which the product is sold to the final consumer and this to designate other products which cannot be confused with those defined in this standard.
However, lot identification and the name and address of the manufacturer or packager may be replaced by an identification mark, provided that such mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).
Other microorganisms than those constituting the specific starter culture(s) specified above may be added.
These substances may be added either before or after adding the non-dairy ingredients.
Acidity regulators, colours, emulsifiers, packaging gases and preservatives listed in Table3 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995) are acceptable for use in fermented milk products categories as specified in the table above.
The names covered by this Standard may be used in the designation, on the label, in commercial documents and advertising of other foods, provided that it is used as an ingredient and that the characteristics of the ingredient are maintained to a relevant degree in order not to mislead the consumer.
Yoghurt may be spelled as appropriate in the country of retail sale.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: a slight defect in shape and development; slight discoloration depending upon the variety; slight superficial defects, slight bruising and/or slight healed cracks provided they do not affect the flesh of the fruit.
The following defects however may be allowed, provided the aubergine retains its essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation: defects in shape and development; discoloration depending upon variety; slight bruising and/or slight healed cracks or sun-scorched; slight dry skin defect provided they do not affect the flesh of the fruit.
For all classes (if sized), 10% by number or weight of aubergines not satisfying the requirements as regards sizing is allowed.
Included therein, is 1% tolerance for decay, soft rot and/or internal breakdown.
Included therein, is 2% tolerance for decay, soft rot and/or internal breakdown.
However, a mixture of aubergines of distinctly different commercial types may be packed together in a package, provided they are uniform in quality and for each commercial type concerned, in origin.
Each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to the name of commercial type.
Any of the following packing media may be used:
When grapes are extensively contaminated by mould: – the grapes can not be used for making concentrated musts or wine; – the grapes can only be used for distillation.
This should be supported where necessary by safety data using laboratory animals.
The description could include, as appropriate: the intended use of the food, e.g. whether it is ready-to-eat or whether it is intended for further processing either by consumers or another business, for example raw seafood to be cooked; products intended for specific vulnerable consumer groups, e.g. infant formula or food for special medical purposes; any relevant specifications, e.g. ingredient composition, aw, pH, type of preservation method used (if any), or important characteristics associated with the food, such as any allergens present; any relevant limits established for the food by the competent authority or, in the absence thereof, set by the FBO; instructions provided for further use, for example keep frozen until cooking, cook to a specified temperature for a specified length of time, product shelf-life (use-by date); storage of product (e.g. refrigerated/frozen/shelf stable) and transport conditions required; and food packaging material used.
For example, for restaurants, the flow diagram could be based on the general activities from the receipt of ingredients/raw material, storage (refrigerated, frozen, room temperature), preparation before use (washing, defrosting), and cooking or preparation of food.
Personnel may be required to put on clean protective clothing (which may be of a differentiating colour from that worn in other parts of the facility), including head and beard covering, footwear, and to wash their hands and where necessary sanitize them.
FBOs may take advantage of risk assessments and risk management matrices established by a competent authority or by international expert groups such as JEMRA.
Where appropriate, records can also be maintained electronically.
This may be achieved by use of a single
Use of control measures like vaccines and feed additives may require authority approval.
The use of specific control measures such as competitive exclusion bacteria, organic acids in pre-slaughter drinking water and organic acids or formaldehyde in feed, may require approval by a competent authority to permit their use.
When feed withdrawal is practised, water additives such as lactic acid may be used to lower post-harvest crop contamination.
54. So as to minimise contamination of carcasses, control measures may include: • Washing with abundant potable running water • Trimming • Disposal or reprocessing of carcasses with extensive faecal contamination
The removal of contaminants may be aided by the use of brushing apparatus installed in line with the inside/outside wash.
Where appropriate, the results of a risk assessment undertaken by other regulatory authorities may be used to assist in the risk analysis and avoid duplication of work.
Post-market monitoring may be undertaken for the purpose of: A) verifying conclusions about the absence or the possible occurrence, impact and significance of potential consumer health effects; and
The following types of ionizing radiation may be used: a) Gamma rays from the radionuclides 60Co or 137Cs; b) X-rays generated from machine sources operated at or below an energy level of 5 MeV; c) Electrons generated from machine sources operated at or below an energy level of 10 MeV.
– Starter cultures of harmless lactic acid and/ or flavour producing bacteria and cultures of other harmless micro-organisms; – Rennet or other safe and suitable coagulating enzymes; – Gelatin and starches: These substances can be used in the same function as stabilizers, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by Good Manufacturing Practice taking into account any use of the stabilizers/thickeners listed in Section 4; – Sodium chloride and potassium chloride as a salt substitute; – Potable water; – Safe and suitable processing aids.
The use of appropriate enzymes may be considered to decrease fibre and anti-nutrients, if needed.
Animal source foods such as meat, fish, poultry, eggs, milk and milk products are nutrient dense and good sources of high quality proteins and micronutrients and incorporation of these foods or their derived protein concentrates in Formulated Complementary Foods as technologically feasible is encouraged.
Depending on the nature of the other ingredients in the formulation, the additi on of L -methionine may be desirable in order to improve the nutritional value of the product.
Phytoestrogens can be reduced by fermentation.
Other ingredients, including those listed below, may be used to improve the nutritional quality and/or acceptability of the Formulated Complementary Foods provided that they are readily available and have been proven to be suitable and safe for their intended purpose.
Energy density of Formulated Complementary Foods can be increased by the addition of appropriate digestible carbohydrates.
They can be used to determine appropriate levels for the addition of vitamins and/or minerals to ensure a low prevalence of either inadequate or excessive nutrient intakes using available assessment or monitoring tools.
The vitamins and minerals listed in the Table in the Annex to these Guidelines can be used as a reference for the selection of particular vitamins and minerals and their amounts for addition to a Formulated Complementary Food.
Additional requirements in this respect may be made in accordance with the legislation of the country in which the product is sold.
– Starter cultures of harmless lactic acid and/ or flavour producing bacteria and cultures of other harmless micro-organisms; – Rennet or other safe and suitable coagulating enzymes; – Sodium chloride and potassium chloride as a salt substitute; – Potable water; – Safe and suitable enzymes to enhance the ripening process; – Safe and suitable processing aids; – Rice, corn and potato flours and starches: Notwithstanding the provisions in the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978), these substances can be used in the same function as anti-caking agents for treatment of the surface of cut, sliced, and shredded products only, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by Good Manufacturing Practi ce, taking into account any use of the anti-caking agents listed in Section 4.
The following defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package:
Durian may be sized by weight or count.
Class; Size (size code or weight range or count); Net weight (optional).
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: ­ a slight defect in shape; ­ slight skin defects not exceeding 5% of the total surface area, excluding defects on spinterns. The defects must not, in any case, affect the flesh of the produce.
In addition to the above, 10% by number or weight of detached fruits is allowed in each package containing rambutan in bunches.
The rambutans may be presented under one of the following forms:
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce “Rambutan” and may be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type, including specified characteristic of “individually” or “in bunches”.
In wet processing the high moisture phase may be extended and controlled through fermentation, but it is desirable to reduce this time.
Appropriate storage facilities, the use of good storage practice and regular monitoring can prevent or reduce problems.
Standards, recommendations or guidelines from other international inter-governmental organisations whose membership is open to all countries may also be useful.
Such programs can include formal education and/or academic studies, industry training organisation courses or individual business staff training.
In the absence of criteria from these sources, national legislation may be used.
The recognized practice of repacking quick frozen products under controlled conditions which will maintain the quality of the product, followed by the reapplication of the quick freezing process as defined, is permitted.
Fillets may be presented as boneless, provided that boning has been completed including the removal of pin-bones.
Antioxidants and humectants used in accordance with Tables 1 and 2 of the General Standard for Food Additives (CODEX STAN 192 -1995) in food category 09.2.1 (Frozen fish, fish fillets, and fish products, including mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms) and its parent food categories are acceptable for use in foods conforming to this Standard.
The foot of a bone (where it h as been attached to the vertebra) shall be disregarded if its width is less than or equal to 2 mm, or if it can easily be stripped off with a fingernail.
8.1.3 If the product has not been sweetened and conforms with the requirements of Section 2.2.2, the designation “Unsweetened” may be used in close proximity to the name of the food.
The following criteria may be used by the competent authorities to categorize the outbreak and to develop and adapt response plans: the number of cases, the geographical spread of the outbreak, and whether the outbreak is ongoing; the disease severity and its consequences, including the number of deaths and treatment options available; the population affected, for example, more vulnerable groups; the pathogenicity (virulence/infectivity) of the microorganism; the source of contamination and the history of the establishment and business;
This can help hypothesis generation and potentially lead to more quickly identifying the source of an outbreak.
INFOSAN or other similar networks can be used as a resource for risk communication messages in such instances to ensure factual information is being shared about an international foodborne outbreak.
INFOSAN also facilitates the sharing of experiences and lessons learned in and between countries in order to optimize future interventions to protect the health of consumers.
Historical data may also be valuable when determining if/how the agent involved behaves differently than previously seen.
(d) For exact or alternative probabilities, or fo r a different incidence of non-compliance, the number of samples to be taken may be calculated from: 1-p = (1-i)n where p is the probability and i is the incidence of non-comp liant residues in the lot (both expressed as fractions, not percentages), and n is the number of samples.
Note: samples of fat taken as described in 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 may be used to determine compliance of the fat, or the whole product, with the corresponding MRLs.
Note: samples of fat taken as described in 5.1 and 5.2 may be used to determine compliance of the fat, or the whole product, with the corresponding MRLs
A sampling device may be used to withdraw the analytical portion.
(b) Units should not be cut or broken to produce the laboratory sample(s), except where sub-division of units is specified in Table 3. (c) Replicate laboratory samples may be prepared.
(d) A lot may be mixed by grading or manufacturing processes, for example.
Parts or organs may be cut to form units.
Where a sampling device may be used without affecting residues, units may be created by this means.
Where the smallest packages are very small, a pack of packages may form the unit.
7. Rendering of fat tissue for extraction of lipid is acceptable under national law.
Stakeholders are encouraged to contact their competent authorities for assistance or consult with international agencies such as the Int ernational Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) on method development and sharing of technology.
• A positive list of certain marine fish species permitted for import.
Competent authorities or other official institutions that have CP or CTX databases should be encouraged to share approaches on raising awareness of the risks of CP and to publish annual reports or other summaries on monitoring of illnesses to aid other regions in developing strategies for prevention and avoidance of CP.
Based on surveillance and monitoring, competent authorities could determine if changes to ecosystems are contributing to an increase in Gambierdiscus or Fukuyoa algae or CTX-contaminated fish in the area, and if steps can be taken to decrease these effects.
whole; and ground/powdered (without any added matter).
Examples of possible techniques may include transformation of gametes, microinjection of early embryos, nuclear transfer of transgenic cells.
Alternative protocols may be used where adequate justification is provided.
Dried or dehydrated turmeric may be: - whole or fingers of varying sizes, which may be cut at both ends with the flattened circular shape intact; - pieces comprising various cut, diced, or sliced styles; or - powdered/ground. Other styles distinctly different from those three are allowed, provided they are labelled accordingly.
Water used for conveying raw material into the plant should be from a source or suitably treated as not to constitute a public health hazard and should be used only by permission of the official agency having jurisdiction.
For certain products it may also be desirable to check the process by incubation of samples.
The fat and/or protein content of the milk or cream may have been adjusted, only to comply with the compositional requirements in Section 3 of this standard, by the addition and/or withdrawal of milk constituents in such a way as not to alter the whey protein to casein ratio of the milk being adjusted.
The following milk products are allowed for protein adjustment purposes:  milk retentate: Milk retentate is the product obtained by concentrating milk protein by ultrafiltration of milk, partly skimmed milk, or skimmed milk;  milk permeate: Milk permeate is the product obtained by removing milk proteins and milkfat from milk, partly skimmed milk, or skimmed milk by ultrafiltration; and  lactose.ii
Other styles distinctly different from the above three are allowed, provided they are labelled accordingly.
The processing aids used in products conforming to this standard should be consistent with the Guidelines on substances used as processing aids (CXG 75-2010).2
Trade name, variety or cultivar may be listed on the label.
Region of harvest and year of harvest (optional).
- style; - class/grade, if applicable; and - size if sized (optional).
As described in the General Standard for Irradiated Foods (CXS 106-1983), the following sources of ionizing radiation may be used in food irradiation: a) Gamma rays from radionuclides 60Co or 137Cs; b) X-rays generated from machine sources operated at or below an energy level of 5 MeV; and c) Electrons generated from machine sources operated at or below an energy level of 10 MeV.
Affixing colour change indicator label on each package, where applicable, provides another means of distinguishing irradiated and non-irradiated product.
Refer to the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969) for general storage and handling guidance.
In the overall HACCP context, irradiation is a means of reducing hazards associated with infectious parasites and microbial contamination of foods and may be used as a method of control.
The term “noni fruit juice” may be replaced by a term which has customarily been used to describe the product in the country in which the product is intended to be sold (e.g. “nonu juice” or “nono juice”).
Refer to the International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene.
It is advisable that scientific advice be sought.
For recommendations relative to incoming materials see Section 5.3.
For hand disinfection stations, it is preferable to have taps that do not require hand operation.
Other treatments (e.g. microwave heating, ohmic heating, oscillating magnetic field, high hydrostatic pressure, irradiation, etc.) to achieve the required reduction of the target microorganism(s) may be used, if approved for use by the regulatory agency having jurisdiction, where required.
Delivery of the heat or other treatments can be monitored by measuring the time-temperature relationship of: the product itself during treatment;
If acceptable, the products should be moved to a suitable area; if not, they should be removed from the case, not offered for sale, and destroyed if necessary.
Such information may include:  Procedures, data and calculations utilized in the establishment of the scheduled heat or other preservation treatments and cooling methods;  If applicable, procedures, data and records establishing the efficacy of hurdles to maintain the microbiological safety of the product for the intended shelf life;  Procedures, data and records relevant to the establishment of the shelf life of the product;  Any modifications of the product, processing or in other factors (refer to Section 5.1.2.2) used in establishing the scheduled heat or other treatments;  Records documenting the HACCP plan (including the hazard analysis and critical control points);  Records of process monitoring at Critical Control Points as determined in the HACCP plan.
For HR areas:  Environmental sampling for relevant microorganisms is recommended and appropriate corrective action taken when necessary.
A system of colour coding may be used to identify personnel assigned to different areas of the plant.
Spices and dried culinary herbs may include the dried aril (e.g. the mace of nutmeg), bark (e.g. cinnamon), berries (e.g. black pepper), buds (e.g. clove), bulbs (e.g. dried garlic), leaves (e.g. dried basil), rhizomes (e.g. ginger, turmeric), seeds (e.g. mustard), stigmas (e.g. saffron), pods (e.g. vanilla), resins (e.g. asafoetida), fruits (e.g. dried chilli) or plant tops (e.g. dried chives).
Flexibility in the application of certain requirements of the primary production of spices and dried culinary herbs can be exercised, where necessary, provided that the product will be subjected to control measures sufficient to obtain a safe product.
Finished products may be packed in gas tight containers preferably under inert gases like nitrogen or under vacuum in order to retard possible mould growth.
Refer to the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969) and the Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CXC 53-2003).
Similar procedures may be necessary during other maintenance activities such as dismantling or re-positioning of equipment.
Testing of EB can also be used to verify the effectiveness of cleaning procedures.
Chemical hazards such as heavy metals and pesticides, as well as physical contaminants such as stones, glass, wire, extraneous matter and other objectionable material, may also be present in spices and dried culinary herbs.
It is recommended that the products covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), Code of Hygienic Practice for Low -Acid and Acidified Low-Acid Canned Foods ( CXC 23-1979) and other relevant Codex texts such as Codes of Hygienic Practice and Codes of Practice.
The Code of Practice and the guidance could also be used as the basis for information to consumers.
The smoke may be cleaned in various ways, e.g. by use of a water filter or a tar condenser before being fed into the smoke chamber.
In order to avoid an increase in the PAH content through fat drippings into the open fire, perforated metal sheets can be installed between the food to be smoked and the heat source.
The recommendation could be to prioritize smoking of fish with skin and, preferably, removing the skin before consumption.
An HACCP system might be applied.
