Quinoa is the grain obtained from Chenopodium quinoa Willd.
This section of the standard applies to formula for special medical purposes intended for infants in liquid or powdered form intended for use, where necessary, as a substitute for human milk or infant formula in meeting the special nutritional requirements arising from the disorder, disease or medical condition for whose dietary management the product has been formulated.
Determination of equivalency between “pasta filata” processing and other processing techniques: Identification of the typical structure by confocal laser scanning microscopy.
Varieties covered by this standard are included in the annex.
- to reach the appropriate stage of physiological maturity corresponding to the particular characteristics of the variety; - to withstand transport and handling; and - to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination in order to ripen satisfactorily.
For the purposes of this standard, this includes recycled material of food-grade quality.
Five percent by number or weight of bananas not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of class I or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety.
Extrapolation to the following commodities Mustard greens or Kale or Broccoli, Chinese or radish leaves and Sweet potato leaves or Arrowroot leaves and Grape leaves and Kangkung or Water mimosa or Watercress and Witloof chicory (sprouts) and Chayote leaves or Pumpkin leaves and Leaf lettuce or any crop intended to use as baby leaves (harvested up to 8 true leaf stage) and Mungbean sprouts Extrapolation to the following commodities Cowpea leaves; Dandelion; Danggwi; Daylily leaves; Dock; Dolnamul; Ebolo; Endive; Fame flower; Feather cockscomb; Glasswort, common; Godeulppaegi; Gomchwi; Goosefoot leaves; Iceplant; Japanese honewort; Jute; Lettuce, bitter; Lettuce, Head; Lettuce, Leaf; Mallow leaves; New Zealand spinach; Orach; Peanut leaves; Perilla leaves; Plantain leaves; Polygonatum leaves; Purslane; Purslane, Winter; Sanmaneul leaves; Sowthistle; Soya bean leaves; Spider plant; Spinach; Spinach, Indian; Seumbagwi; Tanier spinach; Violet, Chinese Extrapolation to the following commodities Scorzonera; Skirret; Sugar beet; Swede; Ti palm; Turnip, Garden
Longans are classified in three classes defined below:
Five percent by number or weight of longans not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class I or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
Ten percent by number or weight of longans not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class II or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
If the noodles are too thin to screen with sieves, cut them into 1 cm to 2 cm lengths, mix well, and use these cut noodles for the test sample.
Ethanol denaturated with 5 percent v/v methanol.
If noodles are too thin to screen with sieves, cut them into 1 cm to 2 cm lengths, mix well, and use these cut noodles for test sample.
If the string breaks in less than five seconds, retest the broken parts that are 13 mm or longer to determine if such portions are tough.
If the dates are unpitted, slit the date open so as to expose the pit, remove the pit and examine the pit cavity.
This Standard applies to Provolone intended for direct consumption or for further processing in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this Standard.
Best drying in terms of quickness and quality of the end product is achieved when the peeled cassava is thinly sliced less than 2 mm
The fermented cassava pieces are mashed and passed through a sieve, and when the roots are not soft enough to be mashed by hand, they are pounded or passed through a grater before the fibres are removed by adding water to the mash and filtering.
Roasting has an effect on the amount of residual cyanogenic compound in the final product and the shelf life/storability of the product.
The process follows the steps listed below.
Such differences in approach are justifiable provided they are necessary to ensure that the level of protection achieved is consistent with that of domestically produced food.
In the absence of Codex
As an alternative, trimming of tail hair should be considered where maintenance of hygiene is a problem.
This is work in progress, depending on available scientific knowledge and the priorities set by the World Assembly of Delegates.
The standards cover production, transport, and slaughter or killing, as well as the animal welfare aspects of free-roaming dog population control and the use of animals in research and education.
4) The objectives of this chapter are to: a) provide guidance on the design of a surveillance system and the type of output it should generate; b) provide recommendations to assess the quality of surveillance systems.
Bluetongue (cattle), Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (cattle), Brucella abortus (cattle), Enzootic bovine leukosis, Foot and mouth disease (cattle), Infection with Aujeszky's disease virus (pigs): trypsin treatment required, Infectious bovine rhinotracheitis/infectious pustular vulvovaginitis: trypsin treatment required, Scrapie (sheep). Bluetongue (sheep), Caprine arthritis/encephalitis, Infection with classical swine fever virus. Atypical scrapie (not a listed disease), Bovine immunodeficiency virus (not a listed disease), Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (goats) (not a listed disease of goats), Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (cattle), Campylobacter fetus (sheep) (not a listed disease of sheep), Foot and mouth disease (pigs, sheep and goats), Haemophilus somnus (cattle) (not a listed disease), Infection with rinderpest virus (cattle) the microbial status of the colony (i.e. defined, conventional or undefined) and the donors from which the embryos are collected;
Mortality rates should be recorded regularly, i.e. daily, monthly, annually or with reference to key husbandry activities within the production cycle.
The potential for delays in transportation should be anticipated and avoided.
If the proposed zone remains separate, details should be provided of the control of the movement of relevant commodities between the zones in accordance with Chapter 4.4.
Outcome-based measurables: feed and water consumption, performance, behaviour, gait, incidence of diseases, metabolic disorders and parasitic infestations, mortality, injury rate.
If possible, provide information on primary and secondary outbreaks.
Describe the history of occurrence and management of BSE by providing the following documentary evidence:
The following criteria should be taken into account: – diversity of the clinical cases encountered when performing multi-centre trials; – compliance of protocols with good clinical practice; – eligibility of studied clinical cases, based on appropriate criteria of clinical and bacteriological diagnoses; – parameters for qualitatively and quantitatively assessing the efficacy of the treatment.
iii) Cite the regulations and describe procedures, type and frequency of checks, and management of noncompliance at the points of entry into the country or zone or their final destination, concerning the import and follow-up of the following: – pigs; – genetic material (semen, oocytes and embryos); – fresh meat, pig products and by-products; – veterinary medicinal products; – other materials at risk of being contaminated with CSF virus.
In addition, the Delegate of the Member Country must submit a declaration indicating for at least the past 12 months: 1) there has been no infection with FMDV; 2) no transmission of FMDV; 3) compulsory systematic vaccination is carried out in the target population; 4) the vaccine used complies with the standards described in the Terrestrial Manual. And, for at least the past 24 months, surveillance in accordance with Articles 8.8.43. to 8.8.45.. is in operation, and regulatory measures for the prevention and control of FMD have been implemented.
NB: FIRST ADOPTED IN 1998; MOST RECENT UPDATE ADOPTED IN 2024.
Veterinary Services should comply with the following interrelating principles to ensure the quality of their activities.
This should be coordinated using a One Health approach, and in accordance with Chapter 3.4. and relevant chapters of Section 6.
So long as an ongoing surveillance demonstrates there is no occurrence of the specific infection or infestation, and principles determined for its definition and establishment are respected, the zone maintains its free status.
Unless otherwise specified in the relevant disease-specific chapters of the Terrestrial Code, if the animal health status of an established protection zone changes because of vaccination, the animal health status of the rest of the country or zone is not affected.
At the same time, biosecurity measures in place should be reassessed and increased if necessary.
In the event of a compartment being at risk from a change, in the surrounding area, in the disease situation for which the compartment was defined, the Veterinary Authority should re-evaluate without delay the status of the compartment and consider whether any additional biosecurity measures are needed to ensure that the integrity of the compartment is maintained.
For instance, in appropriate circumstances horses travelling with an international veterinary certificate may be exempt where mutually agreed upon on a bilateral basis between the respective Veterinary Authorities.
When micromanipulation of the embryos is to be carried out, this should be done after completion of the treatments described in point 2 of Article 4.8.5. and conducted in accordance with Chapter 4.10.
Based on the conclusions of the IETS, the following diseases and pathogenic agents are categorised into four categories, which applies only to in vivo derived embryos.
While this may be difficult to achieve in the case of batch collection, it is to be expected that the identities of the herds or flocks from which the donors originated will be maintained.
Irrespective of animal species, there are three phases in the embryo transfer process that determine the final level of risk:
If embryos are to undergo micromanipulation procedures that involve penetration of the zona pellucida, any required risk management steps (including washing) should be carried out first, as described in Chapter 4.10.
The following recommendations are restricted to SCNT and are based on a risk analysis approach to biotechnology-derived animals categorised in accordance with the life-cycle approach consisting of: i) embryos, ii) recipients, iii) offspring, and iv) progeny of animal clones.
Should the chosen option for the disposal of dead animals be applied near the border of a neighbouring country, the relevant Competent Authority of that country should be consulted.
The main apiary locations (places where the bee hives are located the longest time in the year) should be registered first, followed as far as possible by the seasonal apiary locations.
d) Horses are registered in an international database that contains relevant information linked to the passport and the identifier to which Veterinary Authorities have access.
When deciding whether to initiate a vaccination programme the Veterinary Authority should consider, among others, the following: 1) the epidemiology of the disease; 2) the probability that the disease cannot be rapidly contained by means other than vaccination; 3) the incidence and prevalence of the disease, if present; 4) the likelihood of introduction of a pathogenic agent or emergence of a disease; 5) the zoonotic potential of the disease; 6) the density of the exposed susceptible animal population; 7) the level of population immunity; 8) the risk of exposure of specific subpopulations of susceptible animals; 9) the suitability of a vaccination programme as an alternative to or an adjunct to other disease control measures such as a stamping-out policy; 10) the existence of an animal identification system to differentiate vaccinated from unvaccinated subpopulations; 11) the availability of a safe and effective vaccine; 12) the availability of human, financial, and material resources; 13) the cost-benefit analysis of the vaccination programme, including its impact on trade and public health.
If the objectives and targets of the vaccination programme are not achieved, the reasons for this should be identified and addressed.
Because these do not change the animal or public health status of the consignment, they should not prevent the acceptance of the certificate.
These provisions are applicable whether equivalence applies to specific measures or on a systems-wide basis, and whether equivalence applies to specific areas of trade or commodities, or in general.
In many instances, however, assessment of whether the same level of protection will be achieved may only be determined through an evaluation of all relevant components of an exporting country's animal health management systems and animal production systems.
When the products are not returned, the Veterinary Authority of the exporting country shall be informed immediately, thereby providing an opportunity for confirming the findings or correcting the certificate.
Nevertheless, the ship or aircraft should be subjected to all of the animal health measures which the port or airport Veterinary Authority may consider necessary.
3) Licences should specify: a) how the pathogenic agent is to be transported and the disposal of the packaging; b) the name of the person responsible for the work; c) whether the pathogenic agent may be used in vivo (and if so whether in laboratory animals or other animals) and/or only in vitro; d) how the pathogenic agent and any experimental animals should be disposed of when the work is completed; e) limitations on contact by laboratory staff with species susceptible to the pathogenic agents being used; f) conditions for the transfer of pathogenic agents to other laboratories; g) specific conditions relating to the appropriate containment level and biosecurity procedures and practices.
Quarantine activities and procedures should be directed towards defining as much as possible the health status of quarantined animals, while protecting persons and other animals from inadvertent exposure to communicable agents and providing for the health and well-being of quarantined animals.
At a minimum, quarantine programmes should have the following key components:
The reverse side of Appendix H lists diseases which may be considered for inclusion in the veterinary certificate.
4.When the Federation Equestre Internationale approves the leasing of a horse by a National Equestrian Federation, the details of these transactions must be recorded on this page by the National Equestrian Federation concerned. 4.Cuando la Federación Ecuestre Internacional aprueba el alquiler de un caballo por una Federación Ecuestre Nacional, la Federación Ecuestre Nacional debe registrar los detalles de la transacción en esta página.
For example, if personnel from the private sector are used to carry out ante- and post-mortem inspection activities under the overall supervision and responsibility of the Veterinary Services, the Veterinary Services should specify the competency requirements for all such persons and verify their performance.
International health certificates providing official assurances for trading of meat must engender full confidence to the country of importation.
Where justified by risk assessment, surveillance should be carried out to identify infected flocks
Some of the responsibilities described in this article may be applicable to veterinary paraprofessionals or other suitably trained persons according to the national legislation.
The following factors should be considered in the consequence assessment: – microbial dose and subsequent host response interactions; – variation in susceptibility of exposed populations or subgroups of the population; – variation and frequency of human health effects resulting from loss of efficacy of antimicrobial agents and associated costs; – potential linkage of virulence attributes and resistance; – changes in food consumption patterns due to loss of confidence in the safety of food products and any associated secondary risks; – interference with antimicrobial therapy in humans; – importance of the antimicrobial agent in human medicine; – prevalence of resistance in human bacterial pathogenic agents under consideration.
The following factors should be considered in the risk estimation: – number of people falling ill and the proportion of that number infected with antimicrobial resistant microorganisms; – adverse effects on vulnerable human sub-population (children, immunocompromised persons, elderly, pregnant, etc.); – increased severity or duration of infectious disease; – number of person/days of illness per year; – deaths (total per year; probability per year or reduced life expectancy for a random member of the population or a member of a specific sub-population) linked to antimicrobial resistant microorganisms when compared with deaths linked to sensitive microorganisms of the same species; – severity of the disease caused by the target resistant microorganisms; – availability and cost of alternative antimicrobial therapy; – potential impact of switching to an alternative antimicrobial agent (e.g. alternatives with potential increased toxicity); – occurrence of antimicrobial resistance in target pathogenic agents observed in humans; – consequences of the overall risk impacts (e.g. illness and hospitalisation).
In cases where it is necessary to import non-human primates which are known or suspected to be carriers of a zoonotic disease, the import should not be restricted by any of these recommendations, provided that the Veterinary Authority of the importing country requires the placing of the animals in an establishment located on its territory which has been approved to receive them and which meets the standards set in Chapter 5.9.
If serology is used as the surveillance method, it may not be possible to distinguish between vaccinated and infected bovines.
2) The assessment of competence of animal handlers should at a minimum address knowledge, and ability to apply that knowledge, in the following areas: a) planning a journey, including appropriate space allowance, feed, water and ventilation requirements; b) responsibilities for the welfare of animals during the journey, including loading and unloading; c) sources of advice and assistance; d) animal behaviour, general signs of disease, and indicators of poor animal welfare such as stress, pain and fatigue, and their alleviation; e) assessment of fitness to travel; if fitness to travel is in doubt, the animal should be examined by a veterinarian; f) relevant authorities and applicable transport regulations, and associated documentation requirements; g) general disease prevention procedures, including cleaning and disinfection; h) appropriate methods of animal handling during transport and associated activities such as assembling, loading and unloading; i) methods of inspecting animals, managing situations frequently encountered during transport such as adverse weather conditions, and dealing with emergencies, including euthanasia; j) species-specific aspects and age-specific aspects of animal handling and care, including feeding, watering and inspection; and k) maintaining a journey log and other records. 3) Assessment of competence for exporters should at a minimum address knowledge, and ability to apply that knowledge, in the following areas: a) planning a journey, including appropriate space allowances, and feed, water and ventilation requirements;
3) When veterinary certification is required to accompany consignments of animals, it should address: a) when required, details of disinfection carried out; b) fitness of the animals to travel; c) animal identification (description, number, etc.); and d) health status including any tests, treatments and vaccinations carried out.
Sensitivity to such noises should also be taken into account when handling animals.
When groups are mixed, social order has to be re-established and aggression may occur until
Cattle with and without horns should be separated from each other.
2. Animal-based and other measures a) Falling; b) struggling, including wing flapping; c) escape attempts; d) animal vocalisation indicative of distress; e) injuries, dislocations, fractures; f) piling up of animals.
Principles described may also apply to animals that are not suitable for slaughter for commercial reasons, even if they do not present signs of pain or suffering.
This proportion can be used to correct the data regarding those dogs missed during direct observation over a larger geographical area.
Movement of dogs within a country should be under the responsibility of the owner, with the following outcomes: – reducing the risk of contagious diseases spread; – protecting public health and safety; – protecting wildlife and livestock; – protecting dog welfare.
2) Education on responsible dog ownership (for the currently owned dog and any offspring it produces for its lifetime or until the responsibility is passed to the next owner) should address the following: – provide appropriate care to ensure the welfare of the dog and any offspring according to the dog's five welfare needs (suitable environment, suitable diet, housed with or apart from other animals, ability to exhibit normal behaviour and protection from pain, suffering, injury and disease) in order to meet the internationally recognised 'five freedoms' (see point 2 of Article 7.1.2.);
Environmental control should be linked to other DPM measures, to avoid animal welfare problems and reduce public health risks from a sudden reduction in food sources.
In providing this oversight and ensuring the implementation of the Three Rs, the following expertise should be included as a minimum:
It may be appropriate, in teaching institutions, to involve student representation.
Certain working contexts, such as working in construction industries or in harsh environments, may present a particular risk to their welfare.
Outcome-based measurables: behaviour, morbidity, mortality, body condition and physical appearance, lameness and fitness to work.
When working equids need to be slaughtered or killed, recommendations in Chapters 7.5. and 7.6. should be followed to avoid the equids suffering a prolonged and painful death by abandonment, neglect or disease or acute, painful death such as being eaten by wild animals, or hit by a road vehicle.
Outcome-based measurables: behaviour, body condition and physical appearance, handling response, lameness and fitness to work.
Insufficient and inadequate space allowance may increase stress, the occurrence of injuries and have an adverse effect on growth rate, feed efficiency, reproduction and behaviour such as locomotion, resting, feeding and drinking, agonistic and abnormal behaviour.
Although pigs can adapt to a range of thermal environments, particularly if appropriate breeds and housing are used for the anticipated conditions, sudden fluctuations in temperature can cause heat or cold stress.
The recommendations in this chapter address the need to ensure the welfare of chelonians, crocodilians, lacertilians and ophidians, during the process of killing them for their skins, meat and other products.
Unconsciousness means the state of unawareness caused by temporary or permanent disruption of brain function.
When moving reptiles, capture and transport techniques should not compromise human and animal health, welfare and safety.
Criteria which may influence the choice of methods used in the killing process include: – species and size of the reptile; – the extent to which movement of the reptile can be restricted during the killing process; – level of knowledge and skill required to perform the procedure effectively; – safety of the operator; – compatibility with processing requirements and reptile product purposes; – in the case of the use of drugs, the drug availability, licensing and use requirements, possible human abuse, and implications for other product uses such as consumption by a reptile, animals or humans; – ability to maintain equipment in proper working order.
Some reptiles may remain conscious for over an hour after decapitation or spinal cord severance, which makes decapitation or severance of the spinal cord acceptable only in stunned and unconscious reptiles and when followed by immediate destruction of the brain.
decapitation or spinal cord severance should only be used on unconscious reptiles;
It also covers unshelled pistachios which are packed in bulk containers, and which are intended for repacking in consumer size containers.
Varietal types are classified as: (a) Long pistachio (b) Round pistachio
Clean, sound pistachios of a quality suitable for human consumption.
A lot will be considered as meeting the quality criteria requirements of the standard when: (a) there is no evidence of live infestation; and (b) the subsamples as taken in accordance with an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5, (see relevant Codex texts on methods of analysis and sampling), meet the general requirements for subsections 3.3.1 and 3.3.2 and do not exceed the allowances for the respective defects in subsection 3.3.4.
(c) Practically free from foreign matter – anything other than pistachio (kernel, hard shell and pericarp).
(a) Closedness (unsplit) – pistachio shells which are not split open, but contain a fully developed kernel; (b) Emptiness – the condition of pistachio in which the kernel is not developed; (c) Unripeness (immaturity) – the condition of pistachio in which the kernel has not developed adequately; (d) Insect damaged fruit - fruit which is affected by insect damage or containing d ead insects, mites, or other pests. (e) Mouldy fruit - fruit which is affected by mould to a visible extent, or decay.
(a) raw (b) roasted
If the standard deviation is treated as “known”, the assumed value should be scientifically based and accepted by both parties;
However, non-stable or perishable foods may need special consideration.
If it is required to control the percentage of non-conforming items in a lot, then: • For inspected characteristics that are qualitative (including quantitative data classified as attributes, for example "conforming" or "not conforming" with respect to a limit) or distributed in an unknown manner, attributes plans should be used for sampling; • In case of measurable characteristics with normally distributed variability, variables plans should be chosen.
Sampling and testing procedures are fit for purpose in a given product assessment, if, when used in conjunction with appropriate decision criteria, they have acceptable probabilities of wrongly accepting or wrongly rejecting a lot or consignment.
It does not apply to the product when indicated as intended for further processing or for other industrial purposes nor to the product covered by the special standard for quick-frozen blueberries.
It does not apply to products indicated as intended for further processing or for other industrial purpose.
Any presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that it: (i) meets all the requirements of this standard, and (ii) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
Where the food has been glazed, the declaration of net contents of the food shall be exclusive of the glaze.
However, lot identification, and the name and address may be replaced by an identification mark, provided that such a mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents.
If the product has been glazed with sea-water, a statement to this effect shall be made.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) the total number of defectives as classified according to Section 8 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (ii) the average net weight of all sample units is not less than the declared weight, provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any container; (iii) the Food Additives, Hygiene and Labelling requirements of Sections 4, 5 and 6 are met.
Greater than 10% of the surface area of the sample unit exhibits excessive loss of moisture clearly shown as white or yellow abnormality on the surface which masks the colour of the flesh and penetrates below the surface, and cannot be easily removed by scraping with a knife or other sharp instrument without unduly affecting the appearance of the squid.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter which has not been derived from squid (excluding packing material), does not pose a threat to human health, and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification that indicates non-compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
A sample unit affected by persistent and distinct objectional odours or flavours indicative of decomposition, which may be characterized also by light pinkish to red colour.
Textural breakdown of the flesh, indicative of decomposition, characterized by muscle structure which is mushy or paste-like.
In cases where a final decision on odour and texture can not be made in the thawed uncooked state, a portion of the sample unit is sectioned off and the odour, flavour and texture confirmed without delay by using one of the cooking methods defined in Section 7.5.
The microbiological criteria in the product are valid up to the “date of minimum durability ” under the storage conditions specified in the labelling.
However, lot identification, and the name and address of the manufacturer, packer, distributor or importer may be replaced by an identification mark, provided that such a mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents.
These treatments for chemicals may not adequately reduce or remove microorganisms
Directing the supply of water through piping from the point of origin wherever possible is one of the means of avoiding risks of contamination from bulk transport.
Water used for cleaning and disinfection, should be potable (the standards of potability should not be less than those contained in the latest edition of the WHO Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality) if there is a chance that it comes into direct or indirect contact with water that is intended for bottling; otherwise it may be non -potable (if used where there is no direct or
It may be necessary that bottled drinking water products of particular chemical composition provide information concerning their proper consumption and/or have directions regarding whether or not they are suitable for infants and for the rehydration of infant formula.
This Standard does not apply to fish sauce produced by acid hydrolysis.
The sample unit shall be considered as defective when it exhibits any of the properties defined below.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter which has not been derived from salt and fish, does not pose a threat to human health and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification, that indicates non-compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
The presence of any sediments (except NaCl crystals) and/or cloudiness.
A sample unit affected by distinct objectionable odour, e.g. rotten, putrid, rancid, gamey, pungent etc.
A sample unit affected by distinct objectionable taste, e.g. bitter, sour, metallic, taint, etc.
The dilution of fish sauce is necessary because of the high ionic strength in the undiluted sauce.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this Standard when: (i) the total number of defective sample units as classified according to Section 10 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan (AQL-6.5). (ii) the essential composition and quality factors, food additives, contaminants, hygiene and handling and labelling requirements of Sections 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 are met.
The berries are classified into three classes, if it corresponds to a practice for that variety, defined below:
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality, the flesh and presentation in the package: • very slight defects in shape; • very slight leakage of juice, depending on the species and variety; • slight defects in skin and colouring, depending on the species and variety; and • very slight bruising
The following defects may be allowed, provided the berry fruits retain their essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: • slight leakage of juice, depending on the species and variety; • slight defects in shape; • defects in skin and colouring, depending on the species and variety; and • slight bruising.
However, a mixture of berries of distinctly different species and/or varieties may be packed together, as long as they are uniform in quality and each species and/or variety being from the same origin.
“Wild” or equivalent denomination may be included, where appropriate.
In the case of a mixture of distinctly different species and/or varieties of berries of different origins for each species and variety, the indication of each country of origin shall appear next to the name of the species or variety concerned.
In the case of a mixture of distinctly different species and/or varieties of berries of different origins, the indication of each country of origin shall appear next to the name of the species and/or variety concerned.
Other metals, such as iron, also have catalytic effects, although less than that of copper.
Where the oils and fats are fully refined and deodorized for direct human consumption, the tank is normally of stainless-steel construction or mild steel coated with epoxy resin.
However, if air is used a suitable means must be provided to prevent it being blown into the oil in the tanks.
If detergents or alkali are used, all surfaces with which they have been in contact should be rinsed thoroughly with fresh water to ensure that no residues remain.
If the oil then becomes solid, extreme care should be taken during the initial heating to ensure that localized overheating does not occur.
§ It is recognized that in some cases the ambient temperatures may exceed the recommended maximum figures shown in the table.
(1) Cargoes not included in the list are only acceptable if they are agreed upon by the competent authorities of the importing country (see Section 2.1.3 of the code).
Oranges for industrial processing are excluded.
The maturity of oranges is defined by the following parameters: - Colouring; - Minimum juice content, calculated in relation to the total weight of the fruit and after extraction of the juice by means of a hand press.
Oranges are classified in three classes defined below:
The 10% tolerance only applies to fruit whose diameter is not less than 50 mm.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package (or lot for produce presented in bulk) shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to the name of the variety and/or commercial type.
Part I below applies to live bivalve molluscs while Part II applies to raw bivalve molluscs.
A sample unit shall be considered as defective when it exhibits any of the properties defined below.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter which has not been derived from bivalve molluscs, does not pose a threat to human health and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification, that indicates non-compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
A Sample unit shall be considered defective if dead or damaged bivalve molluscs exceed 5% by count.
(iii) the average net weight of all sample units is not less than the declared weight, provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any individual container; (iv) the Food Additives, Contaminants, Hygiene and Labelling requirements of Sections 1.4, 1.5, 1.6 and 1.7 are met.
Bivalve molluscs that have been processed to reduce or limit target organisms while essentially retaining the sensory characteristics of live bivalve molluscs are ones that have been processed to assure reduction or limitation of the target organisms to the satisfaction of the official agency having jurisdiction.
exhibits excessive loss of moisture clearly shown as white or abnormal colour on the surface which masks the colour of the flesh and penetrates below the surface, and cannot be easily removed by scraping with a knife or other sharp instrument without unduly affecting the appearance of the bivalve molluscs.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter which has not been derived from bivalve molluscs, does not pose a threat to human health and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification, that indicates non -compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
Persistent and distinct objectionable odours or flavours indicative of decomposition or rancidity.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) the total number of defectives as classified according to Section 2.9 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan in the General Guidelines on Sampling (CXG 50-2004); (ii) the total number of sample units not meeting the count designation as defined in Section II-2.3 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan in the General Guidelines on Sampling (CXG 50-2004); (iii) the average net weight of all sample units is not less than the declared weight, provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any individual container; (iv) the Food Additives, Contaminants, Hygiene and Labelling requirements of Sections 2.4, 2.5, 2.6 and 2.7 are met.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and the variety and may be labelled as to the level of pungency.
If the explanation of the technical error is such that it proves impossible to replace the suspect
This standard applies to cassava flour intended for direct human consumption which is obtained from the processing of edible cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz).
In addition to the requirements of the General standard for the labelling of pre -packaged foods (CXS 1-1985),3 the following specific provisions apply:
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce “Ware Potato” and should be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type.
In case of a mixture of distinctly different varieties of ware potatoes of different origins, the indication of each country of origin shall appear next to the name of the variety concerned.
In the case of a mixture of distinctly different varieties of ware potatoes of different origins, the indication of each country of origin shall appear next to the name of the variety concerned.
(f) Gloves used in food handling should be maintained in a sound, clean and sanitary condition; gloves should be made of an impermeable material except where their usage would be inappropriate or incompatible with the work involved.
It does not apply to the product when indicated as being intended for further processing.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Section 3. 3 when: (a) for those requirements which are not based on averages, the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 3. 3, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an acceptable quality level (AQL) of 6.5; and (b) the requirements, which are based on sample averages, are complied with.
A lot should be considered as meeting the requirement of Section 7.1.1 when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 7.1.2, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5.
The requirements for minimum drained weight should be deemed to be complied with when the average drained weight of all containers examined is not less than the minimum required, provided that there is no unreasonable shortage in individual containers.
If ice is used in contact with the product it should be of the quality required in paragraph 4.4.1.2.
Where appropriate, the lighting should not alter colours and the intensity should not be less than: 540 lux (50 foot candles) at all inspection points 220 lux (20 foot candles) in work rooms 110 lux (10 foot candles) in other areas.
1.2 These recommendations include consideration of safety in the evaluation of proposed health claims, but are not intended for the complete evaluation of the safety and the quality of a food, for which relevant provisions are laid out by other Codex Standards and Guidelines or general rules of existing national legislations.
The ingredient is one whose presence or addition is permitted in the food and which consumers would normally expect to find in the food.
(a) No sugars of any type have been added to the food (Examples: sucrose, glucose, honey, molasses, corn syrup, etc.); (b) The food contains no ingredients that contain sugars as an ingredient (Examples: jams, jellies, sweetened chocolate, sweetened fruit pieces, etc.); (c) The food contains no ingredients containing sugars that substitute for added sugars (Examples: non-reconstituted concentrated fruit juice, dried fruit paste, etc.); (d) The sugars content of the food itself has not been increased above the amount contributed by the ingredients by some other means (Example: the use of enzymes to hydrolyse starches to release sugars).
(a) The food contains no added sodium salts, including but not limited to sodium chloride, sodium tripolyphosphate; (b) The food contains no ingredients that contain added sodium salts, including but not limited to Worcestershire sauce, pickles, pepperoni, soya sauce, salted fish, fish sauce; and (c) The food contains no ingredients that contain sodium salts that are used to substitute for added salt, including but not limited to seaweed.
(i) a source of or high in the constituent in the case where increased consumption is recommended; or, (ii) low in, reduced in, or free of the constituent in the case where reduced consumption is recommended. Where applicable, the conditions for nutrient content claims and comparative claims will be used to determine the levels for “high”, “low”, “reduced”, and “free”.
In case of a claimed health effect that cannot be measured directly, relevant validated biomarkers may be used (e.g. plasma cholesterol concentrations for cardiovascular disease risk).
Where applicable, the characterization includes a summary of the studies undertaken on production conditions, batch-to-batch variability, analytical procedures, results and conclusions of the stability studies, and the conclusions with respect to storage conditions and shelf-life.
The sample unit shall be considered defective when it exhibits any of the properties defined below:
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) the total number of defectives as classified according to Section 8 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL-6.5; (ii) the average net weight of all sample units is not less than the declared weight, provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any container; and (iii) the Food Additives, Hygiene and Labelling requirements of Sections 4, 5 and 6 are met.
If a cooking evaluation is inconclusive, then the procedure in 7.5 would be used to make the exact determination of moisture content.
9. Direct human exposure to hazards in feed, for example occupational exposure during feed production and processing, is not considered as it is not within the scope of the Codex Alimentarius.
If such exposure is present, the second step is to evaluate the transfer of hazard(s) to edible product(s) of the food-producing animal.
A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Section 3.2, should be considered as a “defective”.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Section 3.2 when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 3.3, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan, as described in Section 10.
This standard applies to unrefined shea butter intended for direct consumption, or as an ingredient in the manufacture of food products.
This Standard applies to Samsø intended for direct consumption or for further processing in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this standard.
When the product undergoes substantial transformation 3 in a second country, the country in which t he transformation is performed shall be considered to be the country of origin for the purpose of labelling.
As noted in Sections 4.2.3 and 4.3.4, the sampling plans included in the ISO 2859i and ISO 3951ii standards differ from plans discussed elsewhere in these guidelines in that they have been designed to explicitly control either the producer’s risk (PR) or the consumer’s risk ( CR), but not both, and use a lot size relationship to determine the required sample size.
If not homogeneous, a stratified sample may be used.
If any one of the four parameters is altered, the control of the producer’s and consumer’s risks will change.
The Principles for the Use of Sampling and Testing in International Food Trade (CXG 83-2013) states: ‘Sampling and testing procedures are fit for purpose in a given product assessment, if, when used in conjunction with appropriate acceptance criteria, they have acceptable probabilities of wrongly accepting or wrongly rejecting a lot or consignment’.
It is important to note that in the case of attributes plans, the binomial distribution is always available as ‘default’ assumption, and that departures from this assumption regarding the type (shape) of the distribution will have very little impact on the producer’s and consumer’s risks.
If the process standard deviation is known, it is important to consider whether it was obtained on the basis of a sufficiently large number of data to ensure it provides a reliable characterization of the variation within the process.
For conceptually infinite lots, sampling plans based on the hypergeometric distribution are the same as the general two-class plans based on the binomial distribution.
A lot is accepted if 𝑿̅ + 𝒌𝑺 2 𝑼 for an upper specification limit 𝑼 or if 𝑿̅ 2 𝒌𝑺 3 𝑳 for a lower limit 𝑳.
It is also usually assumed that there is a single specification limit, either a lower specification limit, L or an upper specification limit, U.
The OC curve for this plan is less discriminatory than the plan when the standard deviation  is known, and a greater sample size will be required to provide equivalent discrimination to that provided when the standard deviation is known.
However, this sample would not, by itself, be useful for assessing conformance of a lot to minimum or maximum specification limits as an additional allowance is required to compensate for variation in the lot to enable such assessments to be made.
If the aggregate sample is larger than the laboratory sample, the laboratory sample should be removed in a random manner from the aggregate sample in such a way to ensure the laboratory sample is still representative of the sublot sampled.
Plans for the average level might also be applicable where the product is homogenized through blending or further processing.
The lot is accepted against an upper limit 𝑼 provided 𝑃 + 𝑘 × 𝑠 ≤ 𝑈 and similarly for a lower limit.
However, in practice, 𝒔 may include other components, such as, analytical measurement uncertainty.
Accordingly, in some cases, an estimate for this component may not be available at all, or may only be available via studies conducted to determine sampling uncertainty rather than analytical uncertainty.
If an estimate of the variation of bias across matrices 3smatrix is available, then the adjusted specification limit should be calculated as: 39USLadj = 39USL  q  sL2 + smatrix 2.
Such approaches are less economical in terms of sample numbers and might not be optimal in terms of controlling producer’s and consumer’s risks and need to be evaluated.
Adherence to specified sampling procedures might be a legislative or regulatory requirement for some commodities in some jurisdictions.
In principle, there is no need for random sampling for well-mixed fluids or bulk products; however random sampling might still be used as a precaution against inhomogeneity or for procedural reasons.
There is a possibility of sampling error and lack of adequate representation of the population, and furthermore, use of convenience sampling might lead to disputes as it is neither a fair nor a valid procedure.
In this example, it is assumed that the measurement uncertainty is negligible and that the lot SD is known.
Does the provision relate to compliance of the distribution or to the average level of the characteristic?
Normally distributed Go to step 4 Compositional proportion Go to step 6 Some other distribution Go to step 7
Negligible CXG 50 4.3.3 PR & CR CXG 50 4.3.4 CR only ISO 3951-6 CXG 50 Appendix 2 PR only ISO 3951-1 Non-negligible Go to step 5
Normally distributed CXG 50 5.2.7 PR & CR CXG 50 5.2.5 CR only ISO 3951-6 Some other distribution CXG 50 5.2.8 PR & CR
Negligible CXG 50 4.4.9 PR & CR Non-negligible Go to step 5
Negligible CXG 50 4.2.7 PR & CR Non-negligible CXG 50 5.2.8 PR & CR
If the characteristic is not a 'serious' food safety or other concern, it is appropriate to also control the producer's risk.
What consumer's risk are you prepared to allow, i.e. how often would you want to accept lots containing 6.5 percent nonconforming? 10%
Typically, MU is considered negligible if the SD representing the MU is less than 10 percent of the lot SD.
For a SD representing the longer-term variation of a process to be considered known, the process must be stable (consistent) over time.
More specifically, in the design of acceptance sampling plans, producer's risk is the probability of rejecting a lot that has a quality level equal to the producer's risk quality (PRQ) level.
The quality level (percentage nonconforming in the lot) at which the probability of rejecting the lot is equal to the specified producer's risk (PR).
Quite apart from some individual member country conventions prohibiting direct communications from international organizations to internal organs of government, it would be economically impossible, even if it were technically feasible, for the Codex Secretariat to maintain up to date lists of the names and addresses of all concerned or
While this may not cut through all elements of competition between ministries, it will assist in ensuring the maximum cooperation possible.
In this context, there is already good cooperation between most member countries within the existing Codex regions, but the need is ever present to continue to explore ways to enhance that cooperation and exert influence on both the food industry and governments to encourage continued support for the principles of the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
These will then be brought to the attention of the particular meeting concerned thereby ensuring that all members’ views are taken into account.
When declared on the label, the count shall be determined by counting all lobsters or tails in the primary container and dividing the count of lobster by the average deglazed weight to determine the count per unit weight.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) the total number of defectives as classified according to section 8 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (ii) the total number of sample units not meeting the count or weight range designation as defined in Section 2.3 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (iii) the average net weight of all sample units is not less than the declared weight, provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any individual container; (iv) the Food Additives, Hygiene and Labelling requirements of Sections 4, 5 and 6 are met.
The complete thawing of the product is determined by gently squeezing the bag occasionally so as not to damage the texture of the lobster, until no hard core or ice crystals are left.
Greater than 10% of the weight of the lobster in the sample unit or greater than 10% of the surface area of the block exhibits excessive loss of moisture clearly shown as white or yellow abnormality on the surface which masks the colour of the flesh and penetrates below the surface, and cannot be easily removed by scraping with a knife or other sharp instrument without unduly affecting the appearance of the lobster .
The presence in the sample unit of any matter which has not been derived from lobster, does not pose a threat to human health, and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification that indicates non -compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
Lobster affected by persistent and distinct objectionable odours or flavours indicative of decomposition or rancidity, or feed.
Distinct blackening of more than 10% of the surface area of the shell of individual whole or half lobster, or in the case of tail meat and meat presentations distinct black, brown, green or yellow discolourations singly or in combination, of the meat affecting more than 10% of the declared weight.
In cases where a final decision regarding the odour/flavour cannot be made in the thawed state, a small portion of the sample unit (100 to 200 g) is prepared without delay for cooking and the odour/flavour confirmed by using one of the cooking methods defined in Section 7.6.
The nature of the product and the method of harvesting will indicate the type and degree of protection required.
If a country proposes to add or delete a nutrient compound to/from a list, the country should provide information that addresses how the nutrient compound satisfies/does not satisfy the criteria in Section 2.1. FCC √ √ √ √ √ √
only for improving the nutritional quality of the protein (when the protein is nutritionally inadequate for its intended use)
Because of its primary purpose of identification, the INS is an open list subject to the inclusion of additional additives or removal of existing ones on an ongoing basis.
The tin level is dependent on a large number of factors, many of which relate to natural variations or occur after the can has left the control of the manufacturer:
This mode of corrosion occurs with tinplate with poor corrosion resistance, or in certain products that have high corrosivity, such as prunes and pear nectar.
Tin sulphides films reduce the passivity of the tinplate surface and may promote pitting corrosion of the base steel.
