These are difficult for the canner to control and may ultimately impact on the level of tin uptake by the product.
Tin uptake will increase with time and most products exhibit first order reaction rates where the rate of dissolution doubles for every 10 °C rise in temperature.
Low oil levels may lead to abrasive damage to the tin coating during transport and can manufacture.
In the unlikely event that unexpectedly high product tin levels occur, documentation makes it easier to track back to any specific changes and to take appropriate action.
Steam exhausting is not used as much.
Large swings in temperature can lead to condensation of moisture on the exterior of cans which can lead to rusting.
The need for a microbiological criterion should be demonstrated, e.g. by epidemiological evidence that the food under consideration may represent a significant public health risk and that a criterion is meaningful for consumer protection, or as the result of a risk assessment.
If a concentration is used as a limit, also the proportion (e.g. 95%, 99%) of the distributio n of possible concentrations that satisfies this limit should be defined.
When microbiological criteria have been developed to address specific risk outcomes they should be reviewed against those outcomes and, if shown not to be effective, they should be adjusted or revoked.
The degree to which industry effectively utilizes quality assurance procedures can influence the methods and procedures by which government services verify that requirements have been met, where official authorities consider such procedures to be relevant to their requirements.
For example, environmental sampling and the strict application of good agricultural practices, with limited end product testing for verification purposes, may produce a result equivalent to extensive end product testing for the control of agriculture chemical residues in raw products.
In these cases a level of control equivalent to domestic controls should have been achieved at the stages prior to import.
Where an imported product is found not to be in conformity, the resulting measures should take into account the following criteria to ensure that any action is proportionate to the degree of public health risk, potential fraud or deception of consumers:
If any issues remain outstanding they should be indicated in the assessment report with appropriate justification.
If the rationale for the assessment is a critical public health issue the advance notice should reflect the urgency related to the public health risk.
Partially purified sucrose, which is crystallised from partially purified cane juice, without further purification, but which does not preclude centrifugation or drying, and which is characterised by sucrose crystals covered with a film of cane molasses.
This standard applies to canned salmon.
(i) is sufficiently distinctive from the form of presentation laid down under 2.3.1; (ii) meets all other requirements of this standard; and (iii) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
A sample unit will be considered defective when it exhibits any of the properties defined below.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter, which has not been derived from salmon or the packing medium does not pose a threat to human health, and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification that indicates non-compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
A sample unit affected by persistent and distinct objectionable odours or flavours indicative of decomposition or rancidity.
(i) Excessive mushy flesh uncharacteristic of the species in the presentation; or (ii) Excessively tough flesh uncharacteristic of the species in the presentation; or (iii) Honey combed flesh in excess of 5% of the net contents.
A sample unit affected by distinct discolouration indicative of decomposition or rancidity or by sulphide staining of the meat exceeding 5% of the net contents.
A sample unit affected by struvite crystals - any struvite crystal greater than 5 mm in length.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) the total number of defectiv es as classified according to Section 8 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (ii) the total number of sample units not meeting the form of presentation as defined in Section 2.3 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (iii) the average net weight and the average drained weight where appropriate of all sample units examined is not less than the declared weight or drained weight as appropriate, and provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any individual container; (iv) the Food Additives, Hygiene and Labelling requirements of Sections 4, 5 and 6 are met.
For example, the expression of enzymes at high levels may give rise to secondary biochemical effects or changes in the regulation of metabolic pathways and/or altered levels of metabolites.
This may involve assessments of different consumption scenarios against the relevant nutritional reference value, taking into account possible changes in bioavailability, or extend to probabilistic methods that characterise the distribution of exposures within the relevant population(s).
Where altered residue or metabolite levels are identified in foods, consideration should be given to the potential impacts on human health using conventional procedures for establishing the safety of such metabolites (e.g. procedures for assessing the human safety of chemicals in foods).
If the characterization of the food indicates that the available data are insufficient for a thorough safety assessment, properly designed animal studies could be requested on the whole foods.
Nevertheless, the possibility of such events cannot be completely discounted.
) C) safety of the gene product, as would be the case for any other expressed gene product.
This Annex draws, where appropriate, on the definitions of key nutritional concepts to be found or to be developed in relevant Codex texts, especially those elaborated by the Codex Committee on Nutrition and Foods for Special Dietary Uses.
Those alterations identified in a plant modified to obtain nutritional or health benefits are the subject of this safety assessment.
If the product is to be considered further, it should be assessed using serum from individuals sensitized to the identified allergenic source.
A positive result in such tests would indicate a potential allergen.
When national or regional food consumption data is unavailable, food availability data may provide a useful resource23.
This standard (formerly CAC/RS 33 -1970) applies to olive oils and olive-pomace oils described in Section 2 presented in a state for human consumption.
For refined olive-pomace oils values > 0.5 and ≤ 0.7% then stigmasterol ≤ 1.4% and ΔECN42 ≤ |0.4|. (d) Chromatographic peak composed by Δ5,23-stigmastadienol+clerosterol+β-sitosterol+sitostanol+Δ5-avenasterol+Δ5,24-stigmastadienol peaks.
Virgin olive oil Olive oil composed of refined olive oil and virgin olive oils If C16:0 ≤ 14.0 %; 2P ≤ 0.9 % If C16:0 > 14.0 %, 2P ≤ 1.0 % Refined olive oil If C16:0 ≤ 14.0 %; 2P ≤ 0.9 % If C16:0 > 14.0 %, 2P ≤ 1.1 % Refined olive-pomace oil 2P ≤ 1.4 % Olive-pomace oil composed of refined olive-pomace oil and virgin olive oils 2P ≤ 1.2 %
(j) Retained until CCFO30. (k) or when the median of the defect is less than or equal to 2.5 and the median of the fruity attribute is equal to 0.
[Honey for Industrial Uses or as an Ingredient in other Foods] This part is subject to further consideration.
Then, if there are results outside of the range, testing frequency can be increased again at that point.
Human pathogens can survive and multiply in many agrichemicals, including pesticides.
This provision may not be necessary when water used for this purpose cannot reach the fruits and vegetables (e.g. in the cases of tall fruit trees, live tree fences or indoor cultivation).
The Code is based on the Recommended International Code of Practice - General Principles of Food Hygiene - CXC 1-1969 (Rev. 3-1997).
SOME BACTERIA CAN PRODUCE HEAT-STABLE TOXINS IN THE PRODUCT.
EGGS CAN BE INTERNALLY CONTAMINATED WITH PATHOGENIC BACTERIA.
7.6 When the transportation time exceeds 2h, the food containers should be placed in thermal boxes.
When this is not possible, the non-disposable serving items in good condition should be washed, cleaned and disinfected after each use.
When this is not possible, wash and disinfect hands before preparing food.
When declared by grade, the package shall declare the grade as prescribed in Table 1.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter which has not been derived from materials specified in section 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, does not pose a threat to human health and is readily recognized without magnification that indicates non-compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when:
the total number of defectives as classified according to Section 8 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5;
the average net weight of all sample units is not less than the declared weight, provided no individual container is less than 95% of the declared weight;
Where possible, planting cassava on any land where groundnut, maize, sugarcane, or other highly susceptible crops were cultivated the previous year is not recommended or would need to ensure the soil has not been contaminated with A. flavus, A. parasiticus and other related species.
A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Section 3.2 (except those based on sample averages), should be considered as a “defective”.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Section 3.2 when: (a) for those requirements which are not based on averages, the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 3.3, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an acceptable quality limit (AQL) of 6.5; and (b) the requirements of Section 3.2, which are based on sample averages, are complied with.
The milk fat content, when present shall be indicated in a manner that is clear and not misleading to the consumer.
Following the safety assessment and, if necessary, further risk assessment, the food or component of food, such as a microorganism used in production, would be subjected to risk management considerations in accordance with the Principles for the Risk Analysis of Foods Derived from Modern Biotechnology before it is considered for commercial distribution.
The safety assessment carried out in this way does not imply absolute safety of the new product; rather, it focuses on assessing the safety of any identified differences so that the safety of the recombinant-DNA microorganism and the food produced using recombinant-DNA microorganism can be considered relative to their respective conventional counterparts.
It may be necessary to examine the inheritance of the inserted or modified DNA or the expression of the corresponding RNA if the phenotypic characteristics cannot be measured directly; D) to demonstrate whether the newly expressed trait(s) is expressed as expected and targeted to the appropriate cellular location or is secreted in a manner and at levels that is consistent with the associated regulatory sequences driving the expression of the corresponding gene; E) to indicate whether there is any evidence to suggest that one or more genes in the recipient microorganism has been affected by the modifications or the genetic exchange process; and F) to confirm the identity and expression pattern of any new fusion proteins.
If the characterisation of the food indicates that the available data are insufficient for a thorough safety assessment, properly designed animal or in vitro studies with the recombinant -DNA microorganism and/or the food produced using it could be considered necessary.
Closer examination of these interactions will depend on the types of differences between the recombinant-DNA microorganism and its conventional counterpart.
The nature of intended and unintended effects of genetic modification and the degree of differences from the conventional counterpart will determine the extent of such testing.
If the characterization of the food indicates that the available data are insufficient for a thorough safety assessment, properly designed animal studies could be requested on the whole food.
However, it should be taken into account that a lack of resistance to pepsin does not exclude that the newly expressed protein can be a relevant allergen.
Fat in dry matter content(m/m): Corresponding minimum dry matter content(m/m): Equal to or above 30% but less than 40%: 47% Equal to or above 40% but less than 45%: 51% Equal to or above 45% but less than 50%: 55% Equal to or above 50% but less than 60%: 57% Equal to or above 60%: 62% Compositional modifications beyond the minima and maxima specified above for milk fat and dry matter are not considered to be in compliance with Section 4.3.3 of the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999).
When the product undergoes substantial transformation 3 in a second country, the country in which the transformation is performed shall be considered to be the country of origin for the purpose of labelling.
Some lead levels may be considered too high for gardening.
Prickly pears for industrial processing are excluded.
Prickly pears are classified in three classes defined below:
They must be characteristic of the variety, well-formed and free of blemishes, with the exception of very slight superficial defects in the skin and ribs due to rubbing and bruises, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package.
These guidelines also apply to feed for food producing animals in cases where it could impact food safety and or fair practice in food trade.
These guidelines address situations where information exchange may be required between the competent authority of the importing and exporting country for the assessment of relevant component(s) of an exporting country’s NFCS that may cover a product or group of products prior to the initiation or maintenance of trade.
Information exchange is justified when the risks posed by the specific food product or group of products to food safety or fair practices in the food trade are such that an assessment of whether the relevant component(s) of the NFCS of the exporting country is appropriately managing the risks, is required and the assurance is not able to be attained by other means.
f) Not require the submission of commercially sensitive information for specific food business operators unless essential to assess the public health objective, in which cases, it should be protected from inappropriate use or disclosure to other parties.
For the purposes of these Guidelines:
The amount of protein to be listed should be calculated using the formula: Protein = Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen x 6.25 unless a different factor is given in a Codex standard or in the Codex method of analysis for that food.
In addition, this information may be given per serving as quantified on the label or per portion provided that the number of portions contained in the package is stated.
The selection of these nutrients for the establishment of an NRV was based on “high quality” evidence for a relationship with a biomarker for NCD risk in adults as reported in the respective 2012 WHO Guidelines on sodium and potassium intake for adults and children.
It does not apply to pre-packaged meals presented in the form of conventional foods.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Section 3.2, when the number of defectives, as defined in Section 3.3, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plans.
Taking into account various characteristics of the products, minimum fill may not be applied to some types of products.
According to AOAC 920.154 B (Sorensen Method) on the following conditions:
According to AOAC 934.01 at a drying temperature of 70 ºC or lower.
This standard applies to butter intended for direct consumption or for further processing in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this standard.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) and the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999), the following specific provisions apply:
The fundamental question in every case is “what is necessary and appropriate on the grounds of the safety and suitability of food for consumption?”
Rationale: To minimize the likelihood by vendors, to jeopardize the safety of food due to inability to provide safe and sanitary environment and proper conditions for the preparation and sale of safe food.
Rationale: To reduce the risk of unsafe food by taking preventive measures to assure the safety and suitability of food at an appropriate stage in the operation by controlling food hazards.
Where the same conveyance or container is used for transporting different foods, or non-foods, effective cleaning and, where necessary, disinfection should take place between loads.
Conditions which should be reported to management so that any need for medical examination and/or possible exclusion from food handling can be considered, include: jaundice; diarrhoea; vomiting; fever; sore throat with fever; visibly infected skin lesions (boils, cuts, etc.); and discharges from the ear, eye or nose.
Inadequate hygiene training, and/or instruction and supervision of all people involved in food related activities pose a potential threat to the safety of food and its suitability for consumption.
Factors to take into account in assessing the level of training required include: • the nature of the food, in particular its ability to sustain growth of pathogenic or spoilage micro-organisms; • the manner in which the food is handled and packed, including the probability of contamination; • the extent and nature of processing or further preparation before final consumption; • the conditions under which the food will be stored; and • the expected length of time before consumption.
Five percent by number or weight of litchis not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class I or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
Ten percent by number or weight of litchis not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class II or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
Ten percent by number or weight of litchis satisfying neither the requirem ents of the class nor the minimum requirements, with the exception of produce affected by rotting or any other deterioration rendering it unfit for consumption.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety or varietal type.
“Bunch” specification, when applicable.
A container that fails to meet the natural total soluble solids requirements, as set out in Section 2.2, and/or one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Section 3.2, should be considered as a “defective”.
iv The provisions in this section do not apply to non-retail containers.
A lot should be considered as meeting the requirement of Section 7.1.1 when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 7.1.2, does not exceed the acceptance number c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5.
**) When required by the importing country and expressed as provided in section 4.7.1 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Food (CODEX STAN 1-1995).
“Table olives” is the product: (a) prepared from the sound fruits of varieties of the cultivated olive tree (Olea europaea L.) having reached an appropriate degree of development for processing that are chosen for their production of olives whose volume, shape, flesh -to-stone ratio, fine flesh, taste, firmness and ease of detachment from the stone make them particularly suitable for processing; (b) treated to remove its bitterness and preserved by natural fermentation, and/or by heat treatment, and/or by other means so as to prevent spoilage and to ensure product stability in appropriate storage conditions with or without the addition of preservatives; and (c) packed with or without a suitable liquid packing medium in accordance with Section 3.1.3.
Table olives are classified in one of the following olive types and trade preparations/treatments.
Table olives are classified in one of the following types according to the degree of ripeness of the fresh fruits: (a) green olives: fruits harvested during the ripening period, prior to colouring and when they have reached normal size; (b) olives turning colour: fruits harvested before the stage of complete ripeness is attained, at colour change; (c) black olives: fruits harvested when fully ripe or slightly before full ripeness is reached.
Any commercially cultivated variety (cultivar) suitable for processing.
Stoned (pitted) olives stuffed either with one or more suitable products (pimiento, onion, almond, celery, anchovy, olive, orange or lemon peel, hazelnut, capers, etc.) or with edible pastes.
Whole broken or broken-and-stoned (pitted) olives with or without capers, plus stuffing material, where the olives are the most numerous compared with the entire product marketed in this style.
Whole or stoned (pitted) olives, usually small in size, with capers and with or without stuffing, packed with other edible pickled products such as pieces of onion, carrot, celery, pepper and other suitable ingredients, as defined by Section 3.1.2 , where the olives are the most numerous compared with the entire product marketed in this style.
Olives from which the stone (pit) has been removed and which basically retain their natural shape.
Classification of table olives is optional; however, if classified, the following designations apply:
This category includes good quality olives which, although they cannot be classified in the two previous categories, comply with the general conditions defined for table olives under this section.
In addition, a unit shall be considered excessively soft if the pit can be felt when applying moderate pressure.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Section 3.2 when: (a) for those requirements which are not based on averages, the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 3.3, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; and (b) the requirements of Section 3.2, which are based on sample averages, are complied with.
A lot wil l be considered as meeting the requirements of Section 7.1 .1 when the number of “defectives” as defined in Section 7.1.2 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5.
The requirements for minimum drained weight should be deemed to be complied with when the average drained weight of all containers examined is not less than the minimum required, provided that the number of “defectives” as defined in Section 7.1.4 does not exceed the appropriate acceptance number (c) of the sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5.
• Non-transversal cuts or surfaces and/or scars, as long as they do not exceed 5% of the surface of the product; • Very slight defects in shape.
For all classes, if sized, 10.0% by number or weight of yams not satisfying the requirements with regard to the size indicated.
Five percent by number or weight of cobs of baby corn not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class I or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
For “Extra” Class, 5%; and for Class I or Class II 10%; by number or weight of cobs of baby corn not satisfying the requirements as regards sizing, but fal ling within the class immediately above or below those indicated in Section 3.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package (or lot for produce presented in bulk) shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety.
The verification of a sample’s authenticity/quality can be assessed by comparison of data for the sample, generated using appropriate methods included in the Standard, with that produced for fruit of the same type and from the same region, allowing for natural variations, seasonal changes and for variations occurring due to processing.
These names may only be used if the product conforms to the definition in Section 2.1 or which otherwise conform to this Standard.
When food additive sweeteners are employed as substitutes for sugars in fruit nectars and mixed fruit nectars, the statement, “with sweetener(s),” shall be included in conjunction with or in close proximity to the product name.
17 Acid corrected as determined by the method for total titratable acids in the Section on Methods of Analysis.
In addition, 10 percent, by number or weight, of firm bulbs may present externally visible shoot growth not exceeding 1.0 cm.
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985),4 the following specific provisions apply:
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce (“onions”, “shallots” as defined in Section 2 – Definition of produce) and may be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type.
This Standard applies to Cheddar intended for direct consumption or for further processing in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this Standard.
a) flesh (cotyledon) discolouration which is darker than a light yellow colour or consists of more than a slight yellow pitting of the flesh; and/or b) skin discolouration which is dark brown, dark grey, dark blue, or black, and covers more than 25% of the kernel. 3% m/m To be determined
This reduces handling, exposure, damage, and theft of the produce.
Transit times, however, are in terms of hours instead of days.
Desirable features in refrigerated trailers up to 14.6 m (48 ft) long and van containers up to 12 m (40 ft) long include for example: - 42000 kJ/h (40000 BTU/h) refrigeration capacity at 38 oC (100 oF) ambient, 2 oC (36 oF) return air temperature; - a continuously operating high capacity evaporator blower for more even produce temperatures and higher relative humidities; - a solid return air bulkhead at the front of the trailer to ensure air circulation throughout the load; - vertical ribs on the rear door to assist in air circulation; - adequate insulation and provisions for heating, when used in regions where weather conditions so demand due to the nature of the produce; - deep floor grooves or channels, from 50 to 75 mm (2 to 3 mm) in depth to provide an adequate cross-sectional area for air circulation under loads placed directly on the floor; - supply-air temperature sensing of the operation of the refrigeration unit to reduce produce chilling and freezing injury; - provisions for ventilation to prevent ethylene or carbon dioxide buildup; - air-ride suspension to reduce the amount of shock and vibration transferred to the shipping containers and the produce inside; - modern containers in which cold air leaves the front part of the container, but the air flow circulates from below (close to the floor) toward the back, then rising to the upper part of the container.
Discharge air may be colder than the set -point temperature if the refrigeration system operates on return air temperature sensing.
The produce is bruised as it moves around inside the shipping container during transport and handling.
Most distribution centres are set up to store palletized loads in three tier racks.
The quality of most produce will rapidly deteriorate if field heat is not removed before loading into transportation equipment.
On the other hand, boxes which utilize less than 90% of the pallet surface and do not align with the pallet edge can shift in transit.
The use of slipsheets in refrigerated transportation equipment with shallow floor channels is not recommended due to the need for adequate air circulation under the load.
It does not apply to specialty products where shrimp constitutes less than 50% m/m of the contents.
Canned shrimp is the product prepared from any combination of species of the families Penaeidae, Pandalidae, Crangonidae and Palaemonidae from which heads, shell, antennae have been removed.
A sample unit will be considered defective when it fails to meet any of the following final product requirements referred to in Section 3.3.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter, which has not been derived from shrimp, does not pose a threat to human health, and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification that indicates non-compliance with good manufacturing or sanitation practices.
(i) Excessive mushy flesh uncharacteristic of the species in the presentation; or (ii) Excessively tough flesh uncharacteristic of the species in the presentation.
A sample unit affected by distinct blackening of more than 10% of the surface area of individual shrimp which affects more than 15% of the number of shrimp in the sample unit.
(i) Struvite crystals - any struvite crystal greater than 5 mm in length.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) The total number of defectives as classified according to Section 8 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL-6.5; (ii) The total number of sample units not meeting presentation requirements in Section 2.3 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL-6.5; (iii) The average net weight and the average drained weight of all sample units examined is not less than the declared weight and provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any individual container; (iv) The Food Additives, Hygiene and Labelling requirements of Sections 4, 5 and 6 are met.
Five percent by number or weight of shoots not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class I or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class, or having slight unscarred cracks appearing after harvesting.
These principles and guidelines are supplemental to those contained in Section 9 of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969).
It focuses on acceptable food safety outcomes achieved through the use of one or more validated food safety control measures, rather than mandating specific processes for individual products.
Improperly protected and maintained premises for the holding and milking of dairy animals have been shown to contribute to the contamination of milk.
If milk storage tanks and cans are used to store foods other than milk, precautions should be taken to prevent any subsequent milk contamination.
For instance, for liquid milk, increased storage temperature will decrease the shelf life.
Examples include water activity, pH, nutrient availability, competition of micro -organisms, and bacteriocins or other growth inhibitors.
Where there is the potential for cross -contamination between end products and raw materials or intermediate products, and from contaminated areas such as construction and rebuilding areas, consideration should be given to a physical separation, such as by the application of barrier hygiene (the application of physical or mechanical barriers to prevent or minimize the transfer of contaminants or potential sources of contaminants) and wet/dry area segregation.
Incoming milk that is out of compliance with established criteria indicates that the control measure system is not working properly and corrective action should be taken to identify and resolve causative problems.
In some cases, for example where more comprehensive control measures are put into place to ensure the safety and suitability of milk (such as may be the case for raw milk intended to be used in the production of raw milk products), it may be necessary to establish criteria for in -process product, intermediate product or finished product in order to verify that the more comprehensive set of control measures have been properly carried out.
There is a close relationship between the hygienic conditions found in primary production and the safety and suitability of processed milk products based on the control measures presented in Annex II.
Likewise, in certain primary production situations, the occurrence of food safety hazards may be less avoidable, which will mandate the application of more stringent control measures during subsequent processing in order to insure the safety and suitability of the finished product.
Where a particular principle has been identified in the main body of the Code, guidelines for the application of that principle will be located in the corresponding section of this Annex.
Rinsing of equipment and storage tanks following cleaning and disinfection should remove all detergents and disinfectants, except in those circumstances where the manufacturer instructions indicate that rinsing is not required.
Deviations from those temperatures may be acceptable if those deviations will not result in an increased risk of microbiological hazards, have been approved by the manufacturer receiving the milk, have been approved by the competent authority, and the end product will still meet the microbiological criteria established in accordance with 5.2.3.2.
There is a close relationship between the control of manufacturing operations and the safety and suitability of processed milk products based on the control measures presented in Annex II.
– In some cases, where more comprehensive control measures are put into place to ensure the safety and suitability of milk, as may be the case for raw milk intended to be used in the production of raw milk products, it may be necessary to classify farms into two categories: those acceptable for use in raw milk products and those that are not.
Any trade in milk treated by the lactoperoxidase system should only be on the basis of mutual agreement between countries concerned, and without prejudice to trade with other countries.
Water activities above 0.70 at 25 degrees Celsius (77 ° Fahrenheit) are ‘unsafe’ as far as growth of Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus and possible aflatoxin production are concerned.
It is undesirable that a variety should suffer from drought stress during pod maturation and some compromise may have to be effected
Avoid insect, bird, and rodent infestation during transportation by the use of insect and rodent proof containers or insect and rodent repellent chemical treatments provided they are approved for the intended use of the peanuts.
If they are to be used for crushing, they should be separately bagged and tagged as unsuitable for direct human consumption in their present state.
For example a critical control point could be at the end of the drying process and one critical limit would be the water content/water activity.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to the name of the variety and/or commercial type.
Tree Tomatoes for industrial processing are excluded.
Tree tomatoes are classified in three classes defined below:
For all classes, ten percent by number or weight of tree tomatoes corresponding to the size immediately above and/or below that indicated on the package.
The maturity of the tree tomatoes can be gauged visually from its external colouring and confirmed by examining flesh content and using the iodine test.
Five percent by number or weight of tree tomatoes not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class I or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
Ten percent by number or weight of tree tomatoes not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class II or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to the name of the variety.
This standard applies to evaporated milks, intended for direct consumption or further processing, in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this standard.
If the consumer would be misled by the omission, the milkfat content shall be declared in a manner found acceptable in the country of sale to the final consumer, either (i) as a percentage by mass or volume, or (ii) in grams per serving as quantified in the label provided that the number of servings is stated.
If the consumer would be misled by the omission, the milk protein content shall be declared in a manner acceptable in the country of sale to the final consumer, either as (i) a percentage by mass or volume, or (ii) grams per serving as quantified in the label provided that the number of servings is stated.
This standard does not cover: (a) products which are clearly intended or labelled as intended for special dietary uses; (b) reduced sugar products or those with a very low sugar content; and (c) products where the foodstuffs with sweetening properties have been replaced wholly or partially by food additive sweeteners.
They undergo operations such as washing, peeling, coring, stemming, grading, cutting, etc. depending on the type of product; (2) (a) packed with or without a suitable liquid packing medium including other optional ingredients as indicated in Section 3.1.2; (b) vacuum packaged with packing medium that does not exceed 20 percent of the product’s net weight and when the container is sealed in such conditions as to generate an internal pressure in accordance with good manufacturing practices; and (3) processed in an appropriate manner, before or after being hermetically sealed in a container, so as to prevent spoilage and to ensure product stability in normal storage conditions at ambient temperature.
In non -white coloured pineapple varieties, white radiating streaks may be present.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Section 3.1.3 and 3.2 when: (1) for those requirements which are not based on averages, the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 3.3, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an acceptable quality level (AQL) of 6.5; and (2) the requirements of Sections 3.1.3 and 3.2, which are based on sample averages, are complied with.
A lot should be considered as meeting the requirement of Section 7.1.1 when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 7.1.2, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5.
8.2.6 If an added ingredient, as defined in Section 3.1.2, alters the flavour characteristic of the product, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the term “flavoured with X” or “X flavoured” as appropriate. 8.2.7 The name of the product may include the varietal type.
7.1.4.1 The drained weight of the product should be not less than the percentages indicated in the corresponding Annexes, calculated on the basis of the weight of distilled water at 20 oC which the sealed container will hold when completely filled.ii 7.1.4.2 Lot acceptance The requirements for minimum drained weight should be deemed to be complied with when the average drained weight of all containers examined is not less than the minimum required, provided that there is no unreasonable shortage in individual containers.
In addition to the general provisions applicable to canned fruits, the following specific provisions apply:
This standard applies to products as defined in Section 2, which are intended for direct consumption.
The product may or may not be bundled up before steaming or boiling and packaging.
The product that is steamed or cooked before being quickly frozen and stored in freezing temperature.
The product that is sterilized to meet the requirements of commercial sterility.
The product that is steamed or cooked before being refrigerated and stored in refrigerating temperature.
Where plant leaves are secured with strings, the strings should not impart any toxic substance to the food.
The refrigerated product (Section 2.2.3) is the product subject to refrigeration as described in the Code of Hygienic Practice for Refrigerated Packaged Foods with Extended Shelf Life (CXC 46-1999).
A lot should be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when the number of defectives as defined in Section 3.3 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an acceptable quality level (AQL) of 6.5.
The requirements for net weight should be deemed to be complied with when the average net weight of all containers examined is not less than the declared weight, provided that there is no unreasonable shortage in individual containers.
It does not apply to the product when indicated as being intended for further processing or to sweetened and/or flavoured coconut milk or cream.
A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Sections 3.1.3 and 3.2 should be considered as a “defective”.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Sections 3.1.3 and 3.2 when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 3.3, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an acceptable quality limit (AQL) of 6.5.
only for pasteurized coconut milk
A lot should be considered as meeting the requirement of Section 7.1.1 when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 7.1.2, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an acceptable quality limit (AQL) of 6.5.
This Standard applies to the labelling of non -retail containers of food (excluding food additives and processing aids) 1,2 not intended to be offered directly to the consumer 3 including the information provided in the accompanying physical documents or by other means, and the presentation thereof.
The food7 in the non-retail container is for further food business activities before being offered to the consumer.8
If all information required under Subsection 6.1 is made available on the label, Sections 6.1 and 6.2 do not apply.
In the case of a non-retail container used as a food transportation unit that is not amenable to possess a label, all the information required under Section 5 and Subsection 6.1 shall be provided in the accompanying documents or through appropriate other means (e.g. electronically between food businesses) and shall be effectively traceable to the food in such containers.
In the case of a non-retail container, which provides visual and legible access to all the information required by Section 5 on the label of prepackaged foods within the non -retail container, the information stipulated in Section 5 is not required.
Smooth and fine granules to liquid, depending on temperature
The exact type and amount of equipment required will depend to some extent on the nature of products to be inspected and the volume and frequency of the examinations.
(c) A supplementary method of evaluation of an inspector’s performance is the accumulation over time of the on -going inspection results vs. any other known information on samples, e.g. reinspection results, consumer complaints, chemical analyses, etc.
This allows for typical spoilage odours to form.
B. If product forms normally show characteristics attributed to harvest location, feed odours, etc. include with the controlled spoilage samples if possible.
Allergies to seafood or to some food additives could eliminate an analyst candidate.
by the frequent periodic assessment of the sensory decisions.
Variations in spoilage rates between individual units can be minimized if the starting ma terial is of uniform size and quality and contact between individual units is maintained during spoilage.
The improvement in test scores which should occur (unless all were correct on the first round) gives an indication of the ability of the candidate to learn new terms to describe sensory perceptions.
For all classes if sized: ten percent by number or weight of yacon not satisfying the requirements as regards to sizing.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package:  slight defects in shape;  scarring or healed damage, not exceeding ten percent of the surface area;  scraped areas, not exceeding ten percent of the product surface. The defects must not, in any case, affect the pulp of the product.
The following defects may be allowed, provided the yacon retains the essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation:  defects in shape;  scarring or healed damage, not exceeding 20 percent of the surface area; and  scraped areas, not exceeding 20 percent of the product surface. The flesh must be free of major quality defects.
Five percent by number or weight of yacon not satisfying the requirements of the class but meeting those of class I.
Five types of important hazard may occur in the growing environment of bivalve molluscs: • enteric bacterial pathogens (e.g. Salmonella spp.); • enteric viral pathogens (e.g. norovirus, viruses causing hepatitis); • naturally occurring bacterial pathogens (e.g. Vibrio spp.); • biotoxins (e.g. okadaic acid group [DSP], saxitoxin group [PSP], brevetoxin group [NSP], domoic acid group [ASP], azaspiracid group [AZP]); and • chemical contaminants (e.g. heavy metals such as lead, cadmium and mercury).
The purpose of these reviews is to verify that the plans can meet their objectives.
For examples of different processes, see Figures 9.1–12.1 in the individual processing sections of the Code.
Defect analysis serves the same purpose for potential quality defects.
For illustrative purposes, examples of the application of the Codex decision tree to a hazard and defect using the canned tuna fish processing line are shown in Tables 5.8 and 5.9, respectively.
Potential hazards that are specific to aquaculture products include residues of veterinary drugs in excess of recommended guidelines and other chemicals used in aquaculture production, and contamination of faecal origin where the facilities are close to human habitation or animal husbandry.
• If labels on post-harvest treated raw bivalve molluscs make safety claims relating to the post-harvest treatment, the claims should be specific to the target hazard that has been eliminated or reduced.
Excessive quantities of foreign matter may result in undesirable physical attributes in the final product that would be objectionable to consumers and potentially hazardous, such as the grinding of teeth on sand and silt while chewing.
Dead scallops can be identified through sensory evaluation, covering characteristics such as shell gaping, lack of response to percussion, sour odour,
• When it is impractical for the initial receiving establishment to conduct all the necessary histamine controls listed in subsection 10.2 (i.e. temperature monitoring, sensory evaluation, vessel records review, and/or histamine testing), then the processing establishment should conduct these activi
However, once the product package is opened, histamine formation can occur again if the product is re-contaminated in the absence of preventative time–temperature controls.
In addition, depending on the treatment, the finished product may need to remain chilled until consumed to ensure safety.
If water-soluble proteins remain in the product, they will negatively affect the gel-forming ability and the long-term frozen storage shelf-life.
Harvested fish in poor condition may not result in specified colour characteristics.
This will lessen the level of impurities and extraneous material that can negatively affect the gel strength capability and colour of the end product.
Refer to Figure 12.1 for an example of a flow chart for coated fish product processing.
However, unless potential re-contamination prior to packaging can be eliminated, it remains more prudent to perform metal detection once packaged.
If appropriate, the personnel performing the abdominal incision should be different from that in charge of cutting the ovaries.
• Drainage should not be permitted to contaminate products.
• Chutes and conveyors should be designed to prevent physical damage caused by long drops or crushing. • Storage equipment should be fit for purpose and not lead to crushing of the product.
Post-rinse A final rinse with potable water or clean water to remove all disinfectant residues, as appropriate.
Physical, chemical and biological agents should be properly applied by appropriately qualified personnel.
The use of higher concentrations of chlorine in water treatment in the primary production-to-consumption food chain is subject to approval by the competent authority, where appropriate.
• Products should meet appropriate standards for labelling and weights.
• Ingredients and packaging material not approved by the official agency having jurisdiction should be investigated and rejected at reception.
Ice, where used, should completely surround the stored fish and be regularly monitored throughout the trip and replenished as necessary.
Cooling curves based on studies applicable to the specific fishing sector are useful to establish proper fish reception temperatures in these circumstances.
