This section covers the areas where the food is prepared, cooked, chilled, frozen and stored.
If possible cabinets for chilled and or/frozen storage of food should be equipped with temperature alarms.
Where the foods served are tho se defined in paragraph 2 -6 a, paragraphs 4.3.14.2, 4.3.14.3 and 4.3.19.2 do not apply.
Note: If an employee is restricted from working in a food handling area because of a communicable disease, he/she should receive clearance from a competent medical professional before returning to work.
Some gloves made from reprocessed fibres may not be suitable when handling food.
No raw materials or ingredient should be accepted by the establishment if known to contain parasites, microorganisms or toxic, decomposed or extraneous substances which will not be reduced to acceptable levels by normal plant procedures of sorting and/or preparation or processing.
However, large pieces of meat or large poultry carcasses often do need to be thawed before cooking.
The health authority will need for its own purposes a record of the catering establishments for which it is responsible and a registration scheme seems most appropriate.
It does not apply to the product when indicated as intended for further processing or for other industrial purposes, nor to bilberriesv as covered by the Standard for Quick-Frozen Bilberries (CXS 76-1981).1
A lot is considered acceptable for compositional criteria when the number of "defectives", as defined in Section 3.2.3 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an acceptable quality limit (AQL) of 6.5, (see relevant Codex texts on methods of analysis and sampling).
Acidified low-acid and conventionally canned low-acid foods are dealt with in the Recommended International Code of Hygienic Practice for Low-Acid and Acidified Low-Acid Canned Foods.
For the purpose of this Code:
This zone is bounded by physical barriers such as structural features or sterile air flows.
However, non-potable water may, with specific acceptance by the official agency having jurisdiction, be used in certain food handling areas provided this does not constitute a hazard to health.
Inspection is particularly important in the case of glass containers which might possibly contain fragments of glass and glass defects which are difficult to see.
Faulty containers may leak during or after processing and storage.
Since such specifications may vary depending upon the aseptic operation and subsequent handling, these should be established in consultation with the container or closure manufacturer.
This should be avoided because there is a considerable risk that such containers may accidently find their way back onto the production line and result in the packing of food in the same container with very objectionable or possibly dangerous material.
If not practicable they should be shielded or located so that they will not become contaminated or obstruct clean-up operations.
(Overfilling and splashing can lead to contamination of seams or seals and adversely affect container integrity).
Where filled, sealed containers are cooled, procedures as described in 7.6.8 of the Code of Hygienic
It should be emphasized that the aseptic processing and packaging of low-acid foods is a very critical operation, involving public health risks and appreciable losses of finished product if inadequate sterilization occurs.
This reduces the chance that any leakage in the regenerator will be from the unsterilized product into the sterilized product.
Equipment which is not cleaned adequately is more difficult to sterilize.
Whenever the in-process monitoring, records review, processor check or other means disclose that a low-acid food container system, or production equipment has received a thermal or sterilization treatment less than that stipulated in the scheduled process, the processor should:
As discussed in 7.5.2.3.2, the critical parameters will be established on the results of
If sterile air or other sterile gas is necessary for the maintenance of aseptic zone integrity within the packaging machine, the presence of a positive pressure should be documented from the presterilization cycle until the end of packaging.
This standard does not apply to products intended for industrial processing.
Part I below applies to live abalone, while Part II applies to raw fresh chilled or frozen abalone.
When declared on the label, the count of abalone shall be determined by counting the number of abalone in the container or a representative sample thereof and dividing the count of abalone by the actual weight/volume to determine the count per unit weight or volume.
Where a risk exists, the marine biotoxins of concern shall be determined according to the methods specified in the Standard for Live and Raw Bivalve Molluscs (CODEX STAN 292-2008).
(iii) the average net weight of all sample units is not less than the declared weight, provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any individual container; (iv) the essential composition and quality factors, food additives, contaminants, hygiene and handling and labelling requirements of Sections I-3, I-4, I-5, I-6 and I-7 are met.
The sample unit shall be considered defective when it exhibits any of the properties defined below.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter which has not been derived from abalone, does not pose a threat to human health and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification, that indicates non-compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
The sample unit is defective if more than 5% of the abalones by count in the sample unit are dead or damaged.
An area of greater than 10% of the surface of the abalones in the sample unit exhibits excessive loss of moisture clearly shown as white or abnormal colour on the surface which masks the colour of the flesh and penetrates below the surface, and cannot be easily removed by scraping with a knife or other sharp instrument without unduly affecting the appearance of the abalone, which affects more than 10% of the weight of the abalones in the sample unit.
The presence in the sample of any matter which has not been derived from abalone, does not pose a threat to human health and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification, that indicates non-compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
Persistent and distinct objectionable odours or flavours indicative of decomposition, rancidity, or other odours or flavours unfit for food.
Textural breakdown of the flesh, indicative of decomposition, characterized by a muscle structure that is mushy or paste-like.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) the total number of defectives as classified according to section II -9 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5. (ii) the average count designation as defined in section II -8.3 is within the declared count, and the total number of samples not meeting the count designation does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5. (iii) the average net weight of all sample units is not less than the declared weight, provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any individual container; (iv) the essential composition and quality factors food additives, contaminants, hygiene and handling and labelling requirements of Sections II-3, II-4, II-5, II-6 and II-7 are met.
It does not apply to processed maize.
Maize grains which are pink and white or dark red and yellow in colour are considered to be red maize, provided the pink or dark red colour covers 50% or more of the surface of the grain MAX: 5.0% by weight of maize of other colours - mixed maize
These other factors differ according to local circumstances: In many cases, in particular where traditional technology is applied, a cooking temperatures of approx. 50ºC is typically applied; In other cases, temperatures above and below are applied.
If there is an addendum, it must have the same identification number as the primary certificate and the signature of the same certifying officer signing the sanitary certificate.
The term “REPLACEMENT” is reserved for use on certificates where, for any good and sufficient reason (such as damage to the certificate in transit), a replacement certificate is issued by the certifying officer.
Page numbering should be used where the certificate occupies more than one sheet of paper.
It does not apply to speciality products where the canned finfish constitutes less than 50% m/m of the net contents of the can or to canned finfish covered by other Codex product standards.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) the following specific provisions apply.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter, which has not been derived from fish or the packing medium, does not pose a threat to human health, and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification that indicates non-compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) the total number of defectives as cl assified according to Section 8 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (ii) the total number of sample units not meeting the presentation defined in Section 2.3 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5 ; (iii) the average net weight and the average drained weight where appropriate of all sample units examined is not less than the declared weight, and provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any individual container; (iv) the Food Additives, Hygiene and Handling and Labelling requirements of Sections 4, 5, and 6 are met.
A sample unit affected by distinct discolouration of the flesh indicative of decomposition or rancidity or by sulphide staining of more than 5% of the drained contents.
This testing may be omitted if full information on analyte stability is provided with the method or if the method is replacing a previously used method for the analyte and the stability information has been previously generated for the previous method.
The stability of analytes needs to be tested if the processing time and temperature are significantly increased.
Some examples of how far the validation data may be extended to other commodities are: • cereals, validation for whole grains cannot be taken to apply to bran or bread but validation for wheat grain may apply to barley grain or wheat four; • animal products, validation for muscle should not be taken to apply to fat or offal but validation for chicken fat may apply to cattle fat; • fruit and vegetables, validation for a whole fresh product cannot be taken to apply to the dried product but validation for cabbages may apply to Brussels sprouts.
Consequently, the fortification levels used in performance testing with representative analytes/representative commodities may not necessarily correspond to the actual ALs.
Therefore, if some of the recoveries are outside the warning limits or occasionally the action limits, but they are within the ranges calculated from the CV A values specified in Table 3, no special action is required.
If this is not achievable, for example in the case of particularly problematic analytes, results from samples should be reported as having poorer accuracy or precision than is normally associated with pesticide residues determination.
Particular problems occur when residues must be confirmed at or about the limit of determination but, although it is difficult to quantify residues at this level, it is essential to provide adequate confirmation of both level and identity.
In this case, the CV Ltyp will also include the uncertainty of sample processing, but will not indicate if the analyte is lost during the process.
When the MRL is set at the limit of determination of the analytical method, the LCL will also be at this level.
LOD/LOQ Matrix effect Calibration range for determination of analyte No No Yes Yes Yes, for representative analytes Yes, for representative analytes Yes, for representative analytes Linearity, reproducibility and signal/noise LOD and LOQ No Yes, (partial if matrix is from a represented class) Yes, partial for represented analytes Yes Yes Yes Yes Lowest calibrated level, and low level spike recovery data Reporting Limit, LCL Yes No No No No No No Analyte stability in No Yes, unless Yes, unless Yes No No, unless Yes, if extraction/final
Repeatability, reproducibility * On-going quality control Ξ If relevant information is not available = Representative analytes may be chosen on the basis of hydrolysis, oxidation and photolysis characteristics
Occasionally with repeated analysis of test portions of positive samples.
When the test results in similar CV Sp as reported, the conditions of sample processing may be considered similar and further tests are not required for the validation of the method.
See 1.1 See 1.1 See 1.1 See 1.1 This testing may be omitted if full information on analyte stability is provided with the method or if the method is replacing a previously used method for the analyte and the stability information has been previously generated for the previous method.
Alternately, if the sample blank, calibration and the recovery are satisfactory then the suitability of reagents etc. are confirmed.
Multi point calibration is not necessary for quantitative confirmation if the calibrant is very close in concentration to that of the sample.
Examples for the need of additional storage stability tests are given under Table 1.
Test is necessary if a new type of equipment is used.
When it is applied at the lowest detectable concentration, this parameter is intended to provide equivalent information to the Limit of Quantitation (LOQ), but CC B2 is always associated with a specified statistical probability of detection, and therefore it is preferred over LOQ.
A separate individual method may be needed, for instance to determine some metabolite included in the residue definition of an individual pesticide or veterinary drug.
It may be expressed as a solution concentration in the test sample or as a mass and must not include the contribution from the blank
Such effects are often unpredictable, but matrix-matching may be unnecessary where co-extractives prove to be of insignificant effect.
The reference method status is only valid if the method is implemented under an appropriate QA regime.
A commodity may be considered representative on the basis of proximate sample composition, such as water, fat/oil, acid, sugar and chlorophyll contents, or biological similarities of tissues etc..
Analyte having physico-chemical properties which are within the range of properties of representative analytes.
The procedure used, if required, to convert the laboratory sample into the analytical sample, by removal of parts (soil, stones, bones, etc.) not to be included in the analysis.
It should be noted that the extent of acrylamide formation can be quite variable e.g. within a production batch made at the same manufacturing plant, or between plants using the same process, ingredients and formulations.
Manufacturers need to be aware that variability in incoming raw materials and poorly controlled heating devices can complicate trials of mitigation strategies, by obscuring changes in acrylamide levels.
When using cultivars with not sufficiently low reducing sugar contents, reconditioning and blanching before high temperature cooking processes, and vacuum frying for heating may lower the level of acrylamide.
A blanching step before frying/roasting may lower the fat content of the final product, but there is contradictory information on this topic.
ii) Blanching may also be unsuitable for some products e.g. potato crisps, as it may cause unacceptable moisture uptake, leading to loss of consistency/ crispness or possible microbiological spoilage.
This level of variation suggests that there may be scope for reducing acrylamide by exploiting the variability of asparagine content in the cultivar pool.
For example, this strategy could include replacing rye and wheat with rice, however, nutritional and organoleptic implications must be considered.
However, any changes to the roasting profile, or deliberate use of extended storage, to decrease acrylamide levels are likely to have a significant impact on the organoleptic properties and consumer acceptability of the product.
This standard applies to Havarti intended for direct consumption or for further processing in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this Standard.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.7.1 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the date of manufacture may be declared instead of the minimum durability information, provided that the product is not intended to be purchased as such by the final consumer.
Papayas are classified in three classes defined below:
Size Code Weight (in grams) A 200 – 300 B 301 – 400 C 401 – 500 D 501 – 600 E 601 – 700 F 701 – 800 G 801 – 1100 H 1101 – 1500 I 1501 – 2000 J > 2001
For all classes, 10% by number or weight of papayas corresponding to the size immediately above and/or below that indicated on the package, with a minimum of 190 g for those papayas packed in the smallest size range.
Five percent by number or weight of papayas not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class I or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
Ten percent by number or weight of papayas not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class II or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
Ten percent by number or weight of papayas satisfying neither the requirements of the class nor the minimum requirements, with the exception of produce affected by rotting or any other deterioration rendering it unfit for consumption.
It does not apply to specialty products where crab meat constitutes less than 50% m/m of the contents.
Canned crab meat is prepared singly or in combination from the leg, claw, body and shoulder meat from which the shell has been removed, of any of the edible species of the sub -order Brachyura of the order Decapoda and all species of the family Lithodidae.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter, which has not been derived from crab meat, does not pose a threat to human health, and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification that indicates non -compliance with good manufacturing practices and sanitation practices.
(i) Excessively mushy flesh uncharacteristic of the species in the presentation; or (ii) Excessively tough flesh uncharacteristic of the species in the presentation.
A sample unit affected by distinct discolourations indicative of decomposition or rancidity or by blue, brown, black discolourations exceeding 5% by weight of the drained contents, or black sulphide staining of the meat exceeding 5% by weight of the drained contents.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) the total number of defectives as classified according to Section 8 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (ii) the total number of sample units not meeting the form of presentation defined in Section 2.3 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (iii) the average net weight and the average drained wei ght where appropriate of all sample units examined is not less than the declared weight, and provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any individual container; (iv) the Food Additives, Hygiene and Labelling requirements of Sections 4, 5 and 6 are met.
Examinations and experience have shown that the water content of this collected sample is closed to the “true” water content of the fish.
The term "wet salted fish" can only be used for fish fully saturated with salt.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter which has not been derived from Gadidae fish, does not pose a threat to human health, and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification that indicates non -compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
A fish affected by persistent and distinct objectionable odours indicative of decomposition (such as sour, putrid, etc.) or contamination by foreign substances (such as fuel oil, cleaning compounds, etc.).
Any visible evidence of red halophilic bacteria.
Textural breakdown of the flesh which is characterized by extensive cracks on more than 2/3 of the surface area or which has been mutilated, torn or broken through to the extent that the split fish is divided into two or more pieces but still held together by skin.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) the total number of defectives as classified according to Section 8 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (ii) the average net weight of all sample units is not less than the declared weight, provided no individual container is less than 95% of the declared weight; and (iii) the total number of sample units not meeting the form of presentation as defined i n Section 2.3 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (iv) the Food Additives, Hygiene and Labelling requirements of Sections 4, 5 and 6 are met.
A fish showing an aggregate area of pronounced halophilic mould clusters on more than 1/3 of the total surface area of the face side.
A pronounced yellow or yellowish orange discoloration caused by the presence of liver and affecting more than 1/4 of the total surface area of the face of the fish.
Any fish showing more than 1/2 of the face of the fish with intense bruising.
A fish with more than 1/2 of the back (skin side) tacky or sticky due to overheating during drying.
This standard applies to Brie intended for direct consumption or for further processing in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this standard.
When the product undergoes substantial transformation2 in a second country, the country in which the transformation is performed shall be considered to be the country of origin for the purpose of labelling.
They are intended for the exclusive or partial feeding of patients with limited or impaired capacity to take, digest, absorb or metabolize ordinary foodstuffs or certain nutrients contained therein, or who have other special medically-determined nutrient requirements, whose dietary management cannot be achieved only by modification of the normal diet, by other foods for special dietary uses, or by a combination of the two.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Sections 3.2 and 3.3, when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 3.4, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5.
In addition, in the case of product is manufactured from P . ginseng C.A. Meyer, ginsenoside Rf should be also be qualitatively detected.
In addition, in case of the product manufactured from P . ginseng C.A. Meyer, ginsenoside Rf should be also be qualitatively detected.
The country of origin of the product and/or raw material shall be declared if its omission is likely to mislead or deceive the consumer.
While several factors influence the selection of physical refining, it is typically conducted on oils containing low levels of phospholipids.
Preferentially refining crude vegetable oil or fish oil with low concentrations of precursors can produce finished oils with lower levels of 3-MCPDE and GE.
Lowering the degumming temperature may help to reduce formation of 3-MCPDE precursors in vegetable oils; however, the degumming temperature will depend on numerous factors including the type of vegetable oil.
However, chemical refining can lead to excessive oil loss (especially for palm oil due to higher FFA levels) and may have a greater environmental impact than physical refining.
Treatment of refined MCT (medium-chain triacylglycerols) oil with fatty acids and a cation counterion, such as an alkali metal, as well as one or more bases converts 3-MCPDE to MAGs, DAGs and TAGs, and GEs to DAGs.
For example, for infant formula, refined oils are selected by manufacturers to ensure these products meet compositional criteria, e.g. national criteria or those established in the Standard for Infant Formula and Formulas for Special Medical Purposes Intended for Infants (CXS 72-1981).
48. Use of refined vegetable oils themselves during frying does not contribute to formation of additional 3- MCPDE and GE, but rather the formation of additional 3 -MCPDE during frying may result from the type of food that is fried (e.g., meat and fish products).
What action, if any, that should be taken would depend upon the quantity and type of defectives found and/or upon prevailing requirements of the regulatory agency having jurisdiction.
3. If lot retained, what further action is recommended or has been taken?
15. Is lot part of a larger lot or consignment? 16. If yes, where is remainder of lot or consignment located?
The following are examples of claims which may be misleading:
The use of these terms should be consistent with the prohibitions set out in Section 3. (iv) Religious or Ritual Preparation (e.g. Halal, Kosher) of a food may be claimed provided that the food conforms to the requirements of the appropriate religious or ritual authorities (see also the General Guidelines for the Use of the Term Halal, CAC/GL 24-1997). (v) Claims that a food has special characteristics when all such foods have the same characteristics, if this fact is apparent in the claim. (vi) Claims which highlight the absence or non-addition of particular substances to food may be used provided that they are not misleading and provided that the substance: (a) is not subject to specific requirements in any Codex Standard or Guideline; (b) is one which consumers would normally expect to find in the food; (c) has not been substituted by another giving the food equivalent characteristics unless the nature of the substitution is clearly stated with equal prominence; and (d) is one whose presence or addition is permitted in the food. (vii) Claims which highlight the absence or non-addition of one or more nutrients should be regarded as nutrition claims and therefore should invoke mandatory nutrient declaration in accordance with the Codex Guidelines on Nutrition Labelling.
Cross contamination can also occur when raw food touches or drips on to cooked or ready-to-eat foods.
If this is not possible, knives and cutting boards should be washed after every use.
Implementing allergen management policies and procedures, and compliance with these:  allows a business to demonstrate it is taking all necessary steps to eliminate or reduce the likelihood o f an allergen being unintentionally present in a food;  increases accuracy of allergenic ingredient declarations;  provides an opportunity for businesses to demonstrate adequate skills and knowledge in allergen management; and  reduces the risk to the consumer with a food allergy from the presence of an unintended allergen.
While intolerances are not explicitly mentioned in the following text, some of the controls described here could be applied to protect those with food intolerances.
When reviewing recipes, product enhancement processes, such as egg washes on baked products for glossy finish, should also be included.
If it is not possible to re-label such food, they should have a procedure to destroy the food.
When this is not feasible, ingredients that contain allergens should be stored below those that do not contain allergens to prevent or minimise the opportunity for allergen cross -contact in the event of a spill or leak.
Re-use of clean-in-place (CIP) solutions, including rinse water, from washing equipment containing an allergen should be avoided if this could result in allergen cross-contact that could present a risk to consumers with a food allergy.
If the product is heat -treated after fermentation the requirement for viable micro-organisms does not apply.
With this method the antibacterial effect is thus an effect of hydrogen peroxide itself.
In addition, results from clinical experiments have clearly demonstrated that milk treated according to this method will not cause any interference of the iodine uptake of the thyroid gland, neither in persons with a normal iodine status nor in cases of iodine deficiency.
The inhibitory effect of the treatment is dependent on the temperature of the stored milk and has been found to act for the following periods of time in laboratory and field-experiments carried out in different countries with raw milk of an initial good hygienic standard: temperature, 6C time, h 30 7 6 25 11 12 20 16 17 15 24 26
Neither does it exclude the normal precautions and handling routines applied to ensure a high hygienic standard of the raw milk.
Since the effects of the system are predominantly bacteriostatic, an initial high bacterial population in the milk can still be revealed by such tests.
It is completed within about 5 minutes from the addition of H2O2; thereafter, no hydrogen peroxide is present in the milk.
Composite milk product is a product of which the milk, milk products or milk constituents are an essential part in terms of quantity in the final product, as consumed provided that the constituents not derived from milk are not intended to take the place in part or in whole of any milk constituent.
Such declarations are not required if the consumer would not be misled by their omission.
This standard applies to Tilsiter intended for direct consumption or for further processing in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this standard.
The listing of methods of analysis and sampling will be removed when the standard is adopted by CAC and included in CXS 234-1999.
This standard applies to products designated as "Luncheon Meat" which have been packed in any suitable packing material.
A declaration of the presence of binders and of edible offal and a declaration indicating the species of animal from which the meat, poultry meat or a combination of these is derived shall be given in connection with the name of the product if their omission would mislead the consumer.
This Standard does not apply to any vegetable protein product which is the subject of a specific Codex Commodity Standard and is designated by a specific name laid down in such standards.
The protein content is calculated on a dry weight basis excluding added vitamins, minerals.
Clean, sound, plant material essentially free from foreign matter in accordance with Good Manufacturing Practice, or VPP of lower protein content meeting the specifications contained in this Standard.
1.1 This standard applies to sorghum flour destined for direct human consumption as defined in Section 2.1 below. 1.2 This standard does not apply to grits or meal obtained from Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench.
– Food adulteration – Other reasons
Subject to the provisions of this standard, standards for individual varieties of cheese, or groups of varieties of cheese, may contain provisions which are more specific than those in this standard and in these cases, those specific provisions shall apply.
However, the word “cheese” may be omitted in the designation of an individual cheese variety reserved by a Codex standard for individual cheeses, and, in the absence thereof, a variety name specified in the national legislation of the country in which the product is sold, provided that the omission does not create an erroneous impression regarding the character of the food.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.7.1 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985), the date of minimum durability need not be declared in the labelling of firm, hard and extra hard cheese which are not mould/soft-ripened and not intended to be purchased as such by the final consumer: in such cases the date of manufacture shall be declared.
The outer part of that cheese does not develop a rind with a lower moisture content although influence of light of course can cause some difference compared to the inner part.
Ostiole or eye is the opening at the distant end of the fruit that may, if open, provide entrance to the vectors, Dried Fruit Beetle ( Carpophilus spp.) or Vinegar flies (Drosophila spp.) for dissemination of aflatoxigenic fungi.
High temperatures and arid conditions in spring and summer can increase sun-scald, result in early leaf fall if severe, cause substantial problems in quality and trigger aflatoxin formation.
This is important since wet surfaces favouring the growth of fungi may be formed even after complete drying of the fruit.
Where required by the authorities having jurisdiction, the nature of the vegetable fats permitted for this purpose may be prescribed in applicable legislation. Products constituents (en %).
Where required by the competent authority, a minimum content of cocoa butter plus milk fat may also be set.
is the product described under Section 2.1.1 of this standard and containing a maximum of 8% m/m flour and/or starch from wheat, maize or rice.
is the product described under Section 2.1.2 of this standard and containing a maximum of 18% m/m flour and/or starch from wheat, maize or rice.
Chocolate para mesa is unrefined chocolate in which the grain size of sugars is larger than 70 microns.
Vermicelli are presented in the form of short, cylindrical grains and flakes in the form of small flat pieces.
If the centre part of the product is made up of a component or components for which a separate Codex standard exists, the component(s) must comply with the applicable standard.
Interpretation: When type of non -cocoa butter vegetable fat is known, the amount of non -cocoa butter vegetable fat is calculated according to J. Amer. Oil Chem. Soc. (1980), 57, 286-293. When type of non -cocoa butter vegetable fat is not known, the calculation is made acc ording to J. Amer. Oil Chem. Soc. (1982), 61 (3), 576-581.
However, lot identification and the name and address of the manufacturer or packager may be replaced by an identification mark, provided that such mark is clearly identifiable with the accompanying documents The labelling of non-retail containers should be in accordance with the General Standard for the Labelling of Non-Retail Containers of Foods (CXS 346-2021).
(b) Applies where a content claim is made in the labelling that refers to the presence of a specific microorganism (other than those specified in section 2.1 for the product concerned) that has been added as a supplement to the specific starter culture.
If the consumer would be misled by the omission, the milk fat content shall be declared in a manner acceptable in the country of sale to the final consumer, either as(i) a percentage of mass or volume, or (ii) in grams per serving as qualified in the label, provided that the number of servings is stated.
greater than or equal to 14 but less than 18
greater than or equal to 18 but less than 22
greater than or equal to 10 but less than 14
greater than or equal to 17 but less than 20
greater than or equal to 22
When grapes are extensively contaminated by mould: – the grapes can not be used for making concentrated musts or wine; – the grapes can only be used for distillation.
Preventive measures are essentially carried out in vineyards and treatments undertaken at the wineries are solely corrective measures.
(i) when the VPP is a suitable vehicle for fortification in regions where there is a demonstrated need for increasing the intake of one or more vitamin(s) or mineral(s) in one or more population groups; (ii) when the VPP contains anti-nutritional factors (e.g., phytate) which may interfere with the bioavailability or utilization of nutrients.
The content and depth of the investigations for a specific VPP will depend on the kind of process applied in its preparation, and the conditions of its intended use as prepared for consumption and the presence of known toxic or anti-nutritional factor(s) in the starting material.
Following an appraisal of the source and the method of manufacture of the VPP together with the results of nutritional and subacute toxicit y studies, the need for further studies including chronic, reproduction, teratogenic and mutagenic studies will be evaluated.
In so doing , it takes into account the wide diversity of food chain operations and practices and varying degrees of risk to public health involved in producing and handling food.
In particular, unless sufficient safeguards are provided, establishments should normally be located away from: environmentally polluted areas and industrial activities which are reasonably likely to contaminate food; areas subject to flooding; areas prone to infestations of pests; and areas where waste, either solid or liquid, cannot be removed effectively.
In addition, for retail and food service operations, whether personnel have direct customer interaction is a factor in training since it may be necessary to convey certain information about products (such as allergens) to customers.
Good building design, layout, maintenance, and location, along with cleaning, inspection of incoming materials and effective monitoring, can minimize the likelihood of infestation and thereby limit the need for pesticides.
The following section describes practices that can assist in the identification and application of appropriate controls, as well as activities that should take place to ensure the operation is under control.
RATIONALE: If operations are not controlled appropriately, food may become unsafe or unsuitable for consumption.
Some key aspects of GHPs , such as those described in Sections 13.2.1 and 13.2.2, could be considered as control measures applied at CCPs in the HACCP system.
When formulation is used to control foodborne pathogens (e.g. adjusting the pH or aw to a level that prevents growth), systems should be in place to ensure that the product is formulated correctly and that the controlling parameters are monitored.
Specifications can help ensure that raw materials and other ingredients are fit for purpose and contaminants have been minimized.
Food may become contaminated or may not reach its destination in a suitable condition for consumption, unless effective hygiene practices are taken prior to and during transport, even where adequate hygiene practices have been taken earlier in the food chain.
The type of conveyances or containers required depends on the nature of the food and the most appropriate conditions under which it should be transported.
Where foods are being produced specifically for a vulnerable population, it may be necessary to enhance process controls, monitor control measures more frequently, verify controls are effective by testing products, or conduct other activities to provide a high level of assurance that the food is safe for the vulnerable population.
GHPs may be observable (e.g. visual checks, appearance) or measurable (e.g. ATP tests of equipment cleaning, concentration of disinfectant), and deviations may require an evaluation of the impact on safety of the product (e.g. whether the cleaning of complex equipment such as meat slicers is adequate).
measurable (e.g. time, temperature, pH, aw), or observable (e.g. visual checks of conveyor belt speed or pump settings, ice covering product).
While the biosecurity provisions in this document have been developed primarily for controlled- environment housing systems they also have applicability to other housing systems.
The contents of these Guidelines are predicated on two extensive risk profiles on Salmonella and Campylobacter in broiler chicken: o Food Safety Risk Profile for Salmonella species in broiler (young) chicken, June 2007 o Food Safety Risk Profile for Campylobacter species in broiler (young) chicken, June 2007
This is particularly important where differences occur in primary production and processing systems between countries and risk managers need the flexibility to choose risk management options that are appropriate in the national context.
When this is not practical, the eggs from Salmonella-positive flocks should be transported separately from other eggs.
When feed withdrawal is practised, water additives such as lactic acid may be used to lower post-harvest crop contamination.
23 Where approved by the Competent Authority.
For GHP-based control measures for all aspects of transport, refer to the Code of Practice – General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969) and the Code of Hygienic Practice for Meat (CAC/RCP 58-2005).
Crust freezing using continuous carbon dioxide belt freezing of skinless breast fillets has been shown to give a reduction of Campylobacter of 0.4 log10 CFU/fillet.
The WHO Five keys to safer food assists in this process.
When new scientific information relevant to a risk assessment becomes available the assessment should be reviewed to incorporate that information and, if necessary, risk management measures adapted accordingly.
It does not apply to foods exposed to doses imparted by measuring instruments used for inspection purposes.
This Standard applies to Cottage Cheese intended for direct consumption or for further processing in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this Standard.
The body has a near white colour and a granular texture consisting of discrete individual soft curd granules of relatively uniform size, from approximately 3 –12 mm depending on whether small or large type of curd is desired, and possibly covered with a creamy mixture.
Heat treatment does not completely inactivate the toxic components (vicine and co-vicine).
Only the food additives referred to in those Standards may be present in the foods covered by these Guidelines, as a result of carry-over from a raw material or other ingredients (including food additives) used to produce the food, subject to the following conditions: a) The amount of the food additive in the raw materials or other ingredients (including food additives) does not exceed the maximum level specified; and b) The food into which the food additive is carried over does not contain the food additive in greater quantity than would be introduced by the use of the raw material or ingredients under good manufacturing practice, consistent with the provisions on carry-over in the Preamble of the General Standard for Food Additives (CODEX STAN 192-1995).
if technologically feasible, or mixed after milling or grinding.
Sprouting, malting and fermentation can induce hydrolysis of phytates and decrease its inhibitory effect on mineral absorption, and may improve B vitamin content.
The effects of this technology are: 5 gelatinization of the starchy portion of the mixture with minimal quantities of water; 5 inactivation of lectins and reduction of trypsin inhibitor activity; 5 a reduction in the quantities of water needed for preparation of the food; 5 flavour development.
The predigested product may have improved organoleptic characteristics, higher digestibility, good solubility, requires less water for the preparation of the food, and hence higher nutrient density.
The lower part of the range applies to products with higher energy density (e.g. lipid -based products) whereas the upper part of the range would apply to products with lower energy density (e.g. porridges containing cereals).
6.6.1 Setting levels for the addition of vitamins and minerals
If the dietary intake data for the target population is not available, the vitamins and minerals listed in the Table in the Annex to these Guidelines can be used as a reference for the selection of particular vitamins and minerals and their amounts for addition to a Formulated Complementary Food.
This standard applies to Danbo intended for direct consumption or for further processing in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this Standard.
Danbo intended for further processing need not exhibit the same extent of ripening when justif ied through technical and/or trade needs.
Durians are classified into three classes defined below:
Rambutans for industrial processing are excluded.
Rambutans are classified in three classes defined below:
There are two forms of presentation: in single fruit and in bunches; the size specification is as follows:
2 38 - 43 23 - 26 3 33 - 37 27 - 30 4 29 - 32 31 - 34 5 25 - 28 35 - 40 6 18 - 24 41 - 50
2 29 - 34 3 35 - 40 4 41 - 45
Five percent by number or weight of rambutans not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class I or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
For all classes or forms of presentation , 10% by number or weight of rambutans corresponding to the size immediately above and/or below that indicated on the package.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce “Rambutan” and may be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type, including specified characteristic of “individually” or “in bunches”.
The post harvest period is characterized by initial, transitional and final phases.
Although it is a simpler process compared to wet processing, a good quality finished product can only be obtained through the application of good practices and proper management.
At some point during drying, there is no further growth as the product reaches the low moisture phase.
In wet processing the high moisture phase may be extended and controlled through fermentation, but it is desirable to reduce this time.
When harvest coincides with a rainy or high humidity season, measures to optimize drying must be adopted.
The other problem is black beans from immature beans submitted to excessive inlet temperature, decreasing the quality of the product.
Tolerance for such defects in sorted green beans should be low and the out -sorted defective beans should not be re -blended into clean coffee or sold directly to roasters unless representative sampling plan and direct OTA analysis has shown them to be acceptable.
The redistribution of water can lead to fungal growth, with the possibility of OTA production.
The national food control system of a country will be based on that country’s particular governmental or constitutional arrangements and institutions, (e.g. presence or absence of sub national governments), national goals and objectives.
Foods for special dietary uses as defined in the General Standard for the Labelling of and Claims for Prepackaged Foods for Special Dietary Uses (CODEX STAN 146-1985) are not covered by these Guidelines.
Vitamin and mineral food supplements are sources in concentrated forms of those nutrients alone or in combinations, marketed in forms such as capsules, tablets, powders, solutions etc., that are designed to be taken in measured small-unit quantities but are not in a conventional food form and whose purpose is to supplement the intake of vitamins and/or minerals from the normal diet.
This provision should not lead to setting of maximum levels that are solely based on recommended nutrient intakes (e. g. Population Reference Intake or Recommended Daily Allowance values).
A sample unit shall be considered as defective when it exhibits any of the properties defined below:
A lot will be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) the total number of "defectives" as classified according to Sect ion 8 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (ii) the average net contents of all containers examined is not less than the declared weight, provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any containers; (iii) the Food Additives, Hygiene and the Labelling requirements of Sections 4, 5 and 6 are met.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter, which has not been derived from fish, does not pose a threat to human health, and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification that indicates non -compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
The presence of two or more parasites per kg of the sample unit detected by the method described in 7.4 with a capsular diameter greater than 3 mm or a parasite not encapsulated and greater than 10 mm in length.
A sample unit affected by persistent and distinct objectionable odours or flavo urs characteristic of decomposition, rancidity or feed.
A sample unit affected by excessive gelatinous condition of the flesh together with greater than 86% moisture found in any individual fillet or a sample unit with pasty textur e resulting from parasitic infestation affecting more than 5% of the sample unit by weight.
A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, or total solids requirements, as set out in Section 2.2, should be considered as a “defective”.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements for total solids referred to in Section 2.2, and the quality criteria in Section 3.2, when the number of “defectives” does not exceed the acceptance number c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5.
