d. Does the vTPA programme have a transparent system to identify FBOs that conform to the standard (e.g. certification)?
b. Do the governance arrangements include a system for review of audit reports, review of decisions relating to non-conformities, potential use of sanctions, and a procedure for appeal?
h. Does the vTPA owner have a protocol in place for information/data retention?
Any other presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that the product: (a) is sufficiently distinctive from other forms of presentation laid down in this standard; (b) meets all relevant requirements of this standard, including requirements relating to limitations on defects, drained weight, and any other requirements in this standard which are applicable to that style in the standard which most closely resembles the style, or styles intended to be provided for under this provision; and (c) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
4.3 When tested by appropriate methods of sampling and examination, the product: - shall be free from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; - shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and - shall not contain any substance originating from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
where, in the labelling or claims, including advertising material or commercial documents, the product, or its ingredients, is described by the terms “organic”, “biodynamic”, “biological”, “ecological”, or words of similar intent including diminutives which, in the country where the product is placed on the market, suggests to the purchaser that the product or its ingredients were obtained according to organic production methods.
– certain ingredients of agricultural origin not satisfying the requirement in that paragraph may be used, within the limit of maximum level of 5% m/m of the total ingredients excluding salt and water in the final product, in the preparation of products as referred to in paragraph 1.1(b); – where such ingredients of agricultural origin are not available, or in sufficient quantity, in accordance with the requirements of Section 4 of these guidelines; Any preparation of micro -organisms and enzymes normally used in food processing, with the exception of micro-organisms genetically engineered/modified or enzymes derived from genetic engineering.
a) the product satisfies the requirements of paragraphs 3.3(c), (d) (e), (f) and (g); b) the indications referring to organic production methods should only appear on the front panel as a reference to the approximate percentage of the total ingredients including additives but excluding salt and water; c) the ingredients, appear in descending order (mass/mass) in the list of ingredients; d) indications in the list of ingredients appear in the same colour and with an identical style and size of lettering as other indications in the list of ingredient.
a) pasture, open-air runs and exercise areas used by non-herbivore species; b) for bovine, equine, ovine and caprine coming from extensive husbandry during an implementation period established by the competent authority or dairy herds converted for the first time; c) if there is simultaneous conversion of livestock and land used only for feeding within the same unit, the conversion period for both livestock, pasture and/or land used for animal feed, may be reduced to two years only in the case where the existing livestock and their offspring are fed mainly with products from the unit.
Where no prohibited products have been previously used in the hive, replacement of wax is not necessary.
When there is any doubt that the product cannot be verified according to the production system provided for in Section 6 of this Guidelines, it must be placed on the market without indication referring to the organic production method.
the average net weight of all sample units is not less than the declared weight, provided no individual container is less than 95% of the declared weight; and Each size of dried salted anchovies shall be classified into two grades as defined below: Characteristics Grade A B Breakage Colour (comparison of colour must be among the same species of fish) Odour Less than 5% Whitish or bluish or yellowish (characteristic of species) No foul or rancid smell Less than 15% Off colour No foul or rancid smell
When such instructions are not given, the sample shall be deep fried in fresh cooking oil at 190°C for 1-2 minutes as appropriate to the size.
The percentage of breakage is determined by the number of broken fish over the total number of fish in the test sample.
If the grade and size of fish is declared the table of Annex A should be applied.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter, which has not been derived from the Engraulidae family, and does not pose a threat to human health, and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification that indicates non-compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
Limited by GMP
provided that there is no unreasonable shortage in individual containers.
“Waters defined by origin”, whether they come from the underground or from the surface, defined under the present standard share the following characteristics: a) they originate from specific environmental resources without passing through a community water system; b) precautions have been taken within the vulnerability perimeters to avoid any pollution of, or external influence on, the chemical, microbiological and physical qualities of water at origin; c) collecting conditions which guarantee the original microbiological purity and essential elements of their chemical make-up at origin; d) from the microbiological standpoint, are constantly fit for human consumption at their source and are kept in that state with particular hygienic precautions until and while packaging in accordance with provisions of sections 3 and 4; e) are not subject to any modification or treatment other than those permitted under Section 3.1.1.
Waters defined by origin must not, prior to packaging, be modified or subjected to treatments other than those described in subsections below with the proviso that these modifications or treatments and the processes used to achieve them do not change the essential physicochemical characteristics nor compromise the chemical, radiological and microbiological safety of these waters when packaged:
• reduction and/or elimination of dissolved gases (and resulting possible change in pH); • addition of carbon dioxide (and resulting change in pH) or re-incorporation of the original carbon dioxide present at emergence; • reduction and/or elimination of unstable constituents such as iron, manganese, sulphur (as S 0 or S--) compounds and carbonates in excess, under normal conditions of temperature and pressure, of the calco-carbonate equilibrium; • addition of air, oxygen or ozone on condition that the concentration of by-products resulting from the ozone treatment is below the tolerance established under Section 3.2.1; • decrease and/or increase in temperature; • reduction and/or separation of elements originally present in excess of maximum concentrations or of maximum levels of radioactivity set according to Section 3.2.1.
Prepared waters can be subjected to any microbial treatments and any treatments that modify the physical and chemical characteristics of the original water on condition that such treatments result in prepared waters that comply with all provisions of Section 3.2 and 4 regarding the chemical, microbiological and radiological safety requirements for prepackaged waters.
Antimicrobial treatments may be used singly or in combination solely in order to conserve the original microbiological fitness for human consumption, original purity and safety of waters defined by origin.
In the case of all waters, “ carbonated” or “ sparkling” if, after packaging, carbon dioxide spontaneously and visibly is given off under normal conditions of temperature and pressure and the carbon dioxide does not entirely originate from the same source as that of the water at emergence.
A segment which is split in one place only and is not prone to disintegrate shall be considered whole, but parts of a segment joined by a “thread”, or by membrane only shall not be considered “whole”.
A blemished unit is a fruit section or any portion thereof which is damaged by lye peeling, by discolouration, or by any other visible injury.
In both cases, the assumption needs to be checked if the analyte level is expected to vary substantially (i.e. when analyte level approaches LOQ).
The example criteria for identification provided in Table 1.should only be regarded as guidelines for identification, not as absolute criteria to prove presence or absence of a compound.
The definitions apply only for the purpose of the Guidelines and are not generally applicable for Codex purposes.
These are not pathogenic and do not produce toxins.
These are not pathogenic and do not produce toxins; b) salt; c) garlic; d) red pepper powder; and e) other ingredients as appropriate.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Section 3.2, when the number of defectives, as defined in Section 3.4, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plans with an acceptable quality level (AQL) of 6.5.
In the case of bulk consignment, the 10% tolerance only applies to fruit with a diameter of not less than 70 mm.
This form of presentation is mandatory for the “Extra” Class and optional for Classes I and II.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package should be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type.
- Class; - Size (size code or minimum and maximum diameter in millimetres); - Net weight (optional); - Size code (or, when fruit packed by count fall under two adjacent codes, size codes or minimum and maximum diameter in mm) and number of fruit, in the case of fruit arranged in layers in the package.
Likew ise, in certain primary production situations, the occurrence of food safety hazards may be less avoidable which may result in the application of more stringent control measures d...
These guidelines are supplemental to those set forth in Section 6 of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969).
Additional information to assist in the application of the stated principle is shown in normal text.
Depending upon the end use of the egg, certain specific microbiological criteria for incoming ingredients may be appropriate to verify that the control systems have been implemented correctly.
Where wet cleaning may damage or result in the contamination of the equipment, alternative cleaning programs should be considered.
Where appropriate, advice should be made available to consumers on the safe handling, use, preparation and consumption of eggs.
For microbiological contamination, this approach is consistent with the approach identified by the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Consultation on Risk Assessment of Microbiological Hazards in Foods (Rome, Italy, 30 April – 4 May 2001).
If dry cleaning is undertaken, the methods used should minimize damage to the protective cuticle and, where appropriate, be followed by oiling of the shell using a suitable food grade oil.
When colour of mature processed peas is not green, colour of peas should be declared (for example: brown peas or yellow peas).
(2) Diameter: compliance with respect to the individual size names.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Section 3.2 when: (1) for those requirements which are not based on averages, the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 3.3, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; and (2) the requirements of Section 3.2, which are based on sample averages, are complied with.
This provision does not apply to vacuum packaged vegetables.
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CXS 1-1985) specific provisions apply:
Any other presentation of the product should be permitted provided that the product: a) is sufficiently distinctive from other forms of presentation laid down in the standard; b) meets all other requirements of the standard, as applicable; and c) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirement of Section 7.1.1 when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 7.1.2, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5.
This standard does not apply to gari.
In addition to the provisions of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre-packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985),5 the specific provisions below apply.
Limes for industrial processing are excluded.
Limes are classified in three classes defined below:
These guidelines are intended to supplement the Codex General Guidelines on Claims and do not supersede any prohibition contained therein.
Under the Islamic Law, all sources of food are lawful except the following sources, including their products and derivatives which are considered unlawful:
Intoxicating and hazardous plants except where the toxin or hazard can be eliminated during processing.
Food additives shall not be described or presented on any label or in any labelling by words, pictorial or other devices which refer to or are suggestive, either directly or indirectly, of any other product with which such food additives might be confused, or in such a manner as to lead the purchaser or consumer to suppose that the food additive is connected with or derived from such other product; provided that the term “x flavour” may be used to describe a flavour which is not derived from, but reproduces the flavour of “x”.
(b) When a food additive undergoes processing in a second country which changes its chemical or physical nature, the country in which the processing is performed shall be considered to be the country of origin for the purposes of labelling.
Nothing in this standard shall preclude the adoption of additional or different provisions in a Codex standard, in respect of labelling, where the circumstances of a particular food additive would justify their incorporation in that standard.
If the language on the original label is not acceptable, a supplementary label containing the mandatory information in an acceptable language may be used instead of relabelling.
Any information or pictorial device may be displayed in labelling provided that it is not in conflict with the mandatory requirement nor would mislead or deceive the consumer in any way whatsoever in respect of the food additive.
Where more than one name is given for a product in Section 2.1, the labelling of that product must include one of those names acceptable in the country of use.
If not, the measurements must be repeated using more concentrated or more diluted solutions as appropriate.
If determining cooking time, cook extra samples, using a temperature measuring device to determine internal temperature.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter which has not been derived from fish (excluding packing material), does not pose a threat to human health, and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification that indicates non -compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) the total number of defectives as classified according to Section 8 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (ii) the average percent fish flesh of all sample units is not less than 50% of the frozen weight; (iii) the average net weight of all sample units is not less than the declared weight, provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any container; and (iv) the Food Additives, Hygiene and Labelling requirements of Sections 4, 5 and 6 are met.
Objectionable textural characteristics such as gelatinous conditions of the fish core together with greater than 86% moisture found in any individual fillet or sample unit with pasty texture resulting from parasites affecting more than 5% of the sample unit by weight.
If breaded and/or battered first strip coating according to the method describer in Section 7.4.
– Starter cultures of harmless lactic acid and/ or flavour producing bacteria and cultures of other harmless micro-organisms; – Rennet or other safe and suitable coagulating enzymes; – Sodium chloride; and potassium chloride as a salt substitute; – Potable water; – Safe and suitable enzymes to enhance the ripening process; – Safe and suitable processing aids; – Rice, corn and potato flours and starches: Notwithstanding the provisions in the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978), these substances can be used in the same function as anti -caking agents for treatment of the surface of cut, sliced, and shredded products only, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by Good Manufacturing Practi ce, taking into account any use of the anti-caking agents listed in Section 4.
Compositional modifications beyond the minima and maxima specified above for milk fat and dry matter are not considered to be in compliance with section 4.3.3 of the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999).
However, other models have been developed which include multi -laboratory trials with smaller numbers of laboratories than are required to conduct a full collaborative study and single laboratory validation based on rigorous in -house evaluation of method performance, supported by a Quality Management System, independent audits and analysis of proficiency or reference materials, when available.
Operation outside these temperatures may compromise test results.
An analytical method developed and used in only one laboratory may have limited use in a residue control programme unless care is taken to meet the rigorous expectations for single laboratory method validation associated with accreditation under ISO/IEC -17025 or equivalent accreditation procedures for testing
If there is a deviation from recommended sampling procedures, records accompanying the sample should describe procedures actually followed in detail.
These two parameters incorporate a consideration of measurement uncertainty.
Because of the low efficacy of sampling protocols to detect low prevalences of non -compliance, other assurance mechanisms are more important where a low prevalence of non-compliance is expected.
However, if compliant results confirm non -biased programme results, they provide increased assurance that the system is working effectively.
However: (a) If the sampling system is too predictable, it may be abused; (b) Consignments need to be homogeneous, because systematic sample units are uniformly distributed over the population.
The population group anticipated to be at greatest risk may be identified, but no general conclusion should be made about the population sampled from the data collected (non-random samples).
When the confirmatory method does not provide quantitative information, the quantification result of the original quantitative method should be verified by analysis of
An example of such a situation is the use of semi -carbazide, which may occur from other sources, as a marker residue for the drug nitrofurazone.
When such limits have not been formally established by the Competent Authority, they are usually estab lished de facto by the detection capabilities of the methods used in the regulatory laboratories.
(i) Freedom from interferences (ii) Matrix effects – characterised and controlled by the method if they occur. (iii) Qualitative, quantitative, and/or confirmatory detector response parameters determined (and CCβ for screening analyses where this is included below to cover cut-off or threshold limits)
(i) Sensitivity (ii) Calibration range (iii) Calibration function (iv) LOD and LOQ, and/or CCα and CCβ
(i) Recovery (ii) Accuracy (trueness and precision) (iii) Measurement uncertainty (iv) Robustness (ruggedness) testing including identification of critical control points and possible stopping points
(i) Stability in sample extracts and standard solutions; (ii) Stability under sample processing and analysis (iii) Stability under frozen storage and freeze-thaw cycle conditions.
If the whole sample is analysed, the mean residue remains the same and the equation can be written as provided, where CVL is the relative uncertainty of the laboratory phase of the determination which may derive from the sub-sampling, sample preparation, sample processing and analytical steps.
Whilst there are a number of options available to laboratories for the estimation of measurement uncertainty, there are two procedures described as the ‘bottom up’ approach and the ‘top down’ approach that are the most commonly used.
Likewise, it may be necessary to take into consideration the stability of analytes during sample storage and processing if these are likely to result in analyte variability between analysts and laboratories.
It may be influenced by the equipment used for chopping / homogenising the sample and the sample matrix, but it is independent from the analyte.
Situation (iii) generally may not lead to actions by the importing party.
This is based on the assumption that the laboratory has undertaken validation and/or verification studies and has sufficient experience to have built up long-term bias and reproducibility data on suitable quality control (QC) samples, CRMs, reference materials (RMs) or matrix spikes.
The following worked examples use hypothetical data for chlorpyrifos as a typical pesticide residue and draw heavily on examples presented in Eurolab Technical report No 1/2007 and the Nordtest Report TR537.
Accordingly, the laboratory would report the result as 0.40 ± 0.20 mg/kg.
The average relative reproducibility standard deviation (S R) reported for chlorpyrifos in the six studies was 25%. 2ref) C (2bias u' RMS' (bias)u' += Equation 3
U′ = 2u′ Equation 1 22 (bias)u' (Rw)u' u' += Equation 2 where U′ = expanded relative uncertainty u′ = combined relative standard uncertainty u′(Rw) = relative standard uncertainty due to within-laboratory imprecision (relative intra-laboratory reproducibility standard deviation) u′(bias) = relative standard uncertainty component due to bias
Assuming the uncertainty stated for the reference materi al to be an expanded uncertainty U (95% confidence range)
7. This example shows that if results are corrected fo r a mean recovery based on nine or more replicate recovery experiments conducted during the course of an analytical program, using a reference material for which the purity is known with a high level of certa inty, a reasonable estimate of measurement uncertainty may be calculated from solely the intra-lab reproducibility standard deviation.
Dried culinary leaves covered by this standard Common name Trade name Scientific name Basil Sweet basil Ocimum basilicum L. Bush basil Ocimum minimum L. American basil Ocimum americanum L. Shrubby basil Ocimum gratissimum L. Camphor basil Ocimum kilimandscharicum Gürke Sacred basil/Holy basil Ocimum tenuiflorum L.Ocimum sanctum L.
The typical colour of basil may change depending on post-harvest treatment.
If the detection of the contaminant in food is reported by other stakeholders, the competent authority can consider such results in a preliminary assessment but should ensure that the reported results are confirmed in an accredited or equivalent level laboratory before doing a final assessment.
Equivocal public health concern may be reported either by a scientific opinion on the degree of uncertainty or conservatism in the results.
The whole form normally is prepared with peel removed; if the peel is not removed, the style is considered additionally as “ unpeeled”:
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Section 3.2 when: a) the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 3.3, does not exceed the acceptance number c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; and b) the maximum allowance for mould count is not exceeded (see Section 3.2.3.3). These acceptance criteria do not apply to non-retail containers.
a) “peeled tomatoes” or “whole peeled tomatoes”, for the products “whole”, if the peel has been removed; b) “tomatoes”, for the other presentations; c) “unpeeled tomatoes”, if the peel has not been removed or if the allowances indicated in Section 3.2.3.1 are not respected.
a) the type: “solid pack” if the pack complies with Section 2.4.1; b) the packing material: “juice” or other, if the pack complies with Section 2.4.2.
Ready-to-eat foods in which growth of L. monocytogenes will not occur would be determined based on scientific justification, including the inherent variability of factors controlling L. monocytogenes.
A ready-to-eat food in which there is greater than an average of 0.5 log CFU/g increase in L. monocytogenes levels for at least the expected shelf life under reasonably foreseeable conditions of distribution, storage and use is considered a food in which growth of L. monocytogenes can occur.
Due to the large diversity among ready-to-eat food products in which growth of L. monocytogenes can occur, this approach would primarily be applied for specific categories or subcategories of ready-to-eat foods being
Other ready-to-eat products, however, with special formulation (for example dry fermented sausage), that are handled after opening may present a higher risk of being a vector for cross contaminating other ready-to-eat products if neither ready-to-eat product is rapidly consumed.
If refrigeration is inadequate, food may support the growth of L. monocytogenes to higher levels.
− Inability to properly control ventilation to minimise condensate formation on surfaces in food processing plants may result in the occurrence of L. monocytogenes in droplets and aerosols which can lead to product contamination.
Rationale: Workers can serve as a vehicle for cross-contamination and should be aware of the steps that need to be taken to manage this risk.
Rationale: Controls specific to L. monocytogenes are generally more stringent than routine Good Hygiene Practices.
In addition, factors that might impact upon the ability of governments to implement these microbiological criteria such as methodological limitations, costs associated with different types of quantitative testing, and statistics-based sampling needs were taken into account.
In this instance, microbiological criteria are implemented for those products and/or points of the food chain when other more
If information is lacking to demonstrate that L. monocytogenes will not grow in a ready-to-eat food during its expected shelf life, the food should be treated as a ready-to-eat food in which growth of L. monocytogenes can occur.
This information may be very useful for explaining the cause(s) of fungal growth and mycotoxin formation during a particular crop year and may help to avoid similar mistakes in the future.
If washing is not needed it should not be carried out as washing might spread the contamination of certain hot spots to the rest of the harvest.
The application of this Code by countries is likely to require modifications and amendments, taking into account local conditions and specific consumer requirements.
If a destructive measurement is carried out, the tolerance of 2.8c is not applicable.
All products are dried and after drying, the products may be further roasted and/or seasoned.
A lot will be considered acceptable when the number of defectives, as defined in Section 3.3, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an acceptable quality level (AQL) of 6.5.
A lot should be considered as meeting the requirement of Section 7.1 when the number of defectives, as defined in Section 7.1.1, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5.
Annex I provides examples of validation scenarios which are for purpose of illustration only and which do not represent actual validation of control measures and which do not have global application.
The precise approach will depend, among other things, on the nature of the hazard, the nature of the raw ingredients and product, the type of control measures or food safety control system selected to control the hazard, and the intended stringency of control of the hazard.
Re-validation may be needed if the hazard associated with a food or ingredient changes as a result of (i) higher concentrations of hazards than originally encountered and accounted for in the design, (ii) a change in response of a hazard to control (e.g. adaptation), (iii) emergence of a previously unidentified hazard, (iv) new information indicating that the hazard is not being controlled to the level specified (e.g. new epidemiological findings or new validated and internationally accepted analytical technologies ) or (v) a new food safety outcome.
Similarly, changes made in product formulation or the application of current control measures (e.g. time/temperature changes) may result in the need for re-validation of control measures.
A system failure may also result from an inadequate hazard analysis and may require re-validation.
In the examples below, it is assumed that the control measures have not been previously validated, that they have a decisive impact on the control of the specific hazard, and that they have been prioritized for validation.
b. The control measure (label) will be considered validated if a specified percentage of the population understands the label (i.e., having read it, they can state what they would do if following the label instructions) and indicates that they plan to follow the instructions.
The control measure can be implemented because data indicated that because of the label instructions more than 25% of the population plan to change their current practice and begin refrigerating eggs at 5ºC (41ºF) and, when appropriate, cooking eggs until the yolk is firm.
SSOPs will be considered to be validated if, after implementation of cleaning and disinfection protocols, food contact surfaces meet microbiological criteria established for aerobic plate counts or other indicator microorganisms as appropriate.
This standard applies to gari destined for direct human consumption which is obtained from the processing of cassava tubers (Manihot esculenta Crantz).
National laws should only permit the use of names other than those given in 6.1.1 and 6.1.2. in countries where such names are traditional, fully understood by the consumer and not misleading or de ceptive with respect to other categories of product provided that any product with less than 25% of total cocoa powder or fat-reduced cocoa powder content shall not bear the term "chocolate" in its designation.
This standard applies to fresh whole and sliced leaves of Gnetum spp., namely commonly Gnetum africanum and Gnetum bucholzianum.
Five percent of the weight basis of Gnetum spp. leaves not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of class I.
Ten percent of the weight basis of Gnetum spp. leaves not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of class II.
Twenty percent of the weight basis of Gnetum spp. leaves satisfying neither the requirements of the class nor the minimum requirements, excluding produce affected by rotting or any other deterioration , rendering it unfit for consumption.
Subject to the provisions of this Standard, Codex Standards for individual varieties of unripened cheese may contain provisions, which are more specific than those in this Standard and in these cases; those specific provisions shall apply.
Unripened cheeses including fresh cheeses are products in conformity with the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978), which are ready for consumption shortly after manufacture.
– Starter cultures of harmless lactic acid and/ or flavour producing bacteria and cultures of other harmless micro-organisms; – Rennet or other safe and suitable coagulating enzymes; – Sodium chloride; – Potable water; – Gelatine and starches: Notwithstanding the provisions in the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978), these substances can be used in the same function as stabilizers, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by Good Manufacturing Practice taking into account any use of the stabilisers/thickeners listed in Section 4; – Vinegar; – Rice, corn and potato flours and starches: Notwithstanding the provisions in the General Standard for Cheese (CXS 283-1978), these substances can be used in the same function as anti-caking agents for treatment of the surface of cut, sliced, and shredded products only, provided they are added only in amounts functionally necessary as governed by Good Manufacturing Practice taking into account any use of the anti-caking agents listed in Section 4.
Unripened cheese may alternatively be designated “fresh cheese” provided it is not misleading to the consumer in the country in which the product is sold.
Partially skimmed (if the content of FDM is above or equal to 10% and less than 25%) Skim (if the content of FDM is less than 10%)
A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Section 3.2 and in the corresponding annexes (except those based on sample averages), should be considered as a “defective”.
For factors evaluated on a sample average, a lot will be considered accep table if the average meets the specified tolerance, and no individual sample is excessively out of tolerance.
A container that fails to meet the net weight declared on the label should be considered as a “defective”.
A lot should be considered as meeting the requirement of Section 7.1 when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 7.1.1, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5.
If a term designating the size of the beans is used: (a) it shall be supported by the size in mm as shown in Section 2.4.5.2; and/or (b) the words “extra small”, “very small”, “small”, “medium”, or “large” as appropriate; and/or (c) by a correct graphic representation on the label of the size range to which the beans predominantly conform; and/or (d) the customary method of declaring size in the country in which the product is sold.
It does not apply to speciality products where the fish content constitutes less than 50% m/m of the contents.
A sample unit shall be considered defective when it exhibits any of the properties defined below.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter, which has not been derived from fish, does not pose a threat to human health, and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification that indicates non -compliance with good manufacturing practices and sanitation practices.
(i) Excessively mushy flesh uncharacteristic of the species in the presentation; or (ii) Excessively tough flesh uncharacteristic of the species in the presentation; or (iii) Honey-combed flesh in excess of 5% of the drained contents.
A sample unit affected by distinct discolouration indicative of decomposition or rancidity or by sulphide staining of the meat exceeding 5% of the drained contents.
A sample unit affected by struvite crystals greater than 5 mm in length.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) the total number of defectives as classified according to Section 8 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (ii) the total number of sample units not meeting the presentation and colour designation as defined in Section 2.3 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (iii) the average net weight or the average weight of drained meat of all sample units examined is not less than the declared weight, and provided ther e is no unreasonable shortage in any individual container; (iv) the Food Additives, Hygiene and Labelling requirements of Sections 4, 5 and 6 are met.
However, tilling may not be appropriate with respect to other economic and environmental benefits, such as moisture conservation, maintenance of soil organic matter, reduced erosion, and lower fuel and water use, hence its costs and benefits should be considered prior to application.
Extremely cold temperatures will also inhibit insect growth and reproduction, reducing the risk of insect damage, which can facilitate mould growth.
This is particularly important if the grain is intended for direct human consumption rather than industrial processing.
Wet milling of maize grain isolates most mycotoxins from the starch fraction used as food ingredients.
However, ZEN occurs primarily due to pre-harvest infection of maize, wheat and barley with the relevant Fusarium spp.
(e) Where low and zero tillage crop rotation practices are normally followed, other mitigation measures take on greater importance (measures at pre-harvest stage, drying and cleaning).
Pigmentation due to sun is not a defect so long as this only affects the skin of the berries.
Fruit with a lower refractometric index are accepted provided the sugar/acid ratio is at least equal to: (a) 20:1 if the Brix level is greater than or equal to 12.5° and less than 14°Brix, (b) 18:1 if the Brix level is greater than or equal to 14° and less than 16°Brix.
Size is determined by the weight of the bunch.
This provision does not apply to packages intended for single servings.
Five percent by weight of bunches not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class I or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
Ten percent by weight of bunches not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class II or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class.
Ten percent by weight of bunches satisfying neither the requirements of the class nor the minimum requirements, with the exception of produce affected by rotting or any other deterioration rendering it unfit for consumption.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety and/or commercial type.
It excludes the product for industrial processing.
If traded as classified, the provisions in Annex I shall apply as minimum requirements.
† For opened capsules/pods.
** Presence of opened capsules/pods in unopened capsules/pods.
A container that fails to meet one or more of the applicable quality requirements, as set out in Section 3.3 and minimum content of mango fruit, as set out in Section 3.2, should be considered as a “defective”.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements for minimum fruit content referred to in Section 3. 2, and the quality criteria in Section 3.3, when the number of “defectives” does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an acceptable quality level (AQL) of 6.5.
It is recommended that the products covered by the provisions of this standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969), the Code of Hygienic Practice for Canned Fruit and Vegetable Products (CXC 2-1969), the Code of Hygienic Practice for Low-Acid and Acidified Low-Acid Canned Foods (CXC 23-1979), and other relevant Codex texts such as codes of hygienic practice and codes of practice.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirement of Section 7.1.1 when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 7.1.2, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an acceptable quality level (AQL) of 6.5.
a) mango chutney or other names in accordance with the composition; or b) other names usually employed in the country; and c) if an added ingredient, as defined in Section 3.1.2 alters the flavour characteristic of the product, the name of the food shall be accompanied by the term “flavoured with X” or “X flavoured” as appropriate.
The Code identifies relevant control measures at the various steps in the food chain that can be employed to reduce the risk s for infants and young children that are associated with the consumption of PF.
The application of wet cleaning procedures has been linked to the occurrence and spread of Salmonella and particularly E. sakazakii(Cronobacter species).
Not applicable for the products considered in this Code.
Microbial growth at this step may lead to non-compliant products as the drying is not considered a controlled killing step.
When monitoring of control measures and surveillance or verification results demonstrates deviations, appropriate corrective action should be taken and the finished product should not be released until adequate investigation has shown that it complies with appropriate specifications.
The presence of water in the processing environment can be as a result of wet cleaning of environments or equipment without appropriate immediate drying, the formation of condensation spots,
Implementation of dry cleaning procedures for the processing lines, equipment and the processing environment is considered to be the most effective method of avoiding multiplication of microorganisms15.
Two sets of criteria are provided below, one for pathogens and a second for process hygiene indicators.
Such indicator tests are particularly amenable to alternative process control sampling plans and statistics.
EB have been used for decades as indicators of process hygiene to detect deviations in good hygienic practices.
The presence of indicator microorganisms, E. sakazakii (Cronobacter species) or Salmonella on food contact surfaces represents a very high risk of directly contaminating the product.
Their levels are good indicators of conditions supporting the potential presence of Salmonella and the potential for growth of Salmonella and E. sakazakii(Cronobacter species).
Additional samples just prior to start-up are good indices of the effectiveness of cleaning operations.
While the hazard analysis will consider marine biotoxins as a potential
If glazed, the water used for glazing or for preparing glazing solutions shall be potable water 2 or clean water3.
Greater than 10% of the weight of the scallop meat or greater than 10% of the surface area of the block exhibits excessive loss of moisture clearly shown as white or yellow abnormality on the surface which masks the colour of the flesh and penetrates below the surface, and cannot be easily removed by scraping with a knife or a sharp instrument without unduly affecting the appearance of the product.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter which has not been derived from scallops, does not pose a threat to human health, and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification that indicates non-compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices
Scallop meat affected by persistent and distinct objectionable odours, flavours, texture or colours indicative of decomposition and/or rancidity; or other objectionable odours, flavours, textures and colours not characteristic of the product.
The presence of parasites at an objectionable level.
The presence of sand, shell or other similar particles that is visible in the thawed state or detected by chewing during sensory examination at an objectionable level
Level of added water exceeding that declared in the label.
if each greater than 3 mm in one dimension
If a term designating the size of the strawberries is used: (a) it shall be supported by a correct graphic representation on the label of the size range to which the strawberries predominantly conform; and/or (b) by a statement of the predominant range of the maximum diameter of the strawberries in millimetres, or fractions of an inch in those countries where the English system is in general use: and/or (c) it shall conform to the customary method of declaring size in the country in which the product is sold.
This standard applies to Whey Powder and Acid Whey Powder, intended for direct consumption or further processing, in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this standard.
The term “sweet” may accompany the name of whey powder, provided that the whey powder meets the following compositional criteria: minimum lactose: 65% minimum protein: 11% maximum ash: 8.5% pH (10% solution)*: >6 * or titratable acidity of maximum 0.16% (calculated as lactic acid).
Formula foods for use in weight-control diets are foods which, when presented as "ready-to-serve" or when prepared in conformity with the directions for use, are presented as a replacement for all or part of the total daily diet.
When such products are presented as a replacement for the major part of the diet, the total energy intake shall not exceed 1200 kcal (5020 kJ).
In addition to the appropriate sections of the General Standard for the Labelling of and Claims for Pre-packaged Foods for Special Dietary Uses (CXS 146-1985),2 hereinafter referred to as General Standard, the following specific provisions apply:
Where the Codex Alimentarius Commission has established a standard for any such substances used as packaging materials, that standard shall apply.
These hygienic practices are particularly important, because some hygiene control measures usually applied to bottled waters cannot be used for natural mineral waters.
The use of this Code may require modifications and amendments that take into account such factors as regional differences due to specific environmental and hydro-geological conditions.
For example, a constantly flowing spring may require sanitation only at times of intervention.
Numbers increasing over a certain level can indicate deterioration in cleanliness, stagnation or development of biofilms.
This standard applies to products, as defined in Section 2, and offered for direct consumption, including for catering purposes, repacking or further processing if required.
Non-fermented soybean products are the products, the main ingredients of which are the soybean and/or soy derivative(s) (e.g. soybean flour, soybean concentrates, soybean isolates or defatted soya) and water which are produced without fermentation process 1.
Compressed soybean curd is partially dehydrated soybean curd, of which the water content is much lower than Soybean curd and has a chewy texture.
Soybean-based beverages are the milky liquid products prepared by adding optional ingredients to soybean beverages, with lower protein content than composite/flavoured soybean beverages (2.2.1.2).
Semisolid soybean curd is the semisolid product in which soybean protein is coagulated by adding coagulant into the soybean liquid preparation.
Soybean curd is the solid product with higher water content, and is made from soybean liquid preparation and coagulated by adding coagulant.
A lot can be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Sections 3.3 and 3.4, when the number of "defectives", defined in Section 3.5, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5 (Annex I, II).
A lot should be considered as meeting the requirement of Section 7.1 when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 7.1.1, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5 (Annex I, II).
If soybean derived from modern biotechnology is used in the process, consideration shall be given to the Compilation of Codex texts relevant to the labelling of foods derived from modern biotechnology (CAC/GL 76-2011).
The appropriate inspection level is selected as follows: Inspection level I - Normal Sampling Inspection level II - Disputes, (Codex referee purposes sample size), enforcement or need for better lot estimate
After such events, produce should be evaluated for risk of contamination and where there is a risk, proper disposal of the affected produce is needed.
Assurance that a parasite hazard is adequately controlled may be attained through demonstration of properly implemented controls and hygienic practices, which may be supported by a series of negative test results over a sufficient time period through a risk-based surveillance programme.
However, it should be noted that most parasite eggs or oocysts are sticky and difficult to remove from fruits and vegetables , particularly those with crevices or folds on the surface.
For example, workers infected with the tapeworm T. solium with improper hand-washing practices can spread eggs that result in the severe disease neurocysticercosis.
Even though water may not be used directly on equipment, spray and elevated humidity from continuous use can increase moisture in organic matter trapped in crevices in equipment, such as conveyors, to the point where micro-organisms can proliferate.
If they are to be used for crushing, they should be separately bagged and tagged as unsuitable for direct human or animal consumption in their present state.
A lot is a quantity of food produced under identical conditions, all packages of which should bear a lot number that identifies the production during a particular time interval, and usually from a particular "line" or other critical processing unit.
If the storage temperature of groundnuts is changed, e.g., cold groundnuts transferred to an area of high humidity or vice versa, care should be taken to s ee that moisture does not condense on the groundnuts.
This Standard applies to a blend of sweetened condensed skimmed milk and vegetable fat, intended for direct consumption, or further processing, in conformity with the description in Section 2 of this Standard.
Where allowed in accordance with the General Principles for the Addition of Essential Nutrients to Food (CXG 9-1987), maximum and minimum levels for Vitamins A, D and other nutrients, where appropriate, should be laid down by national legislation in accordance with the needs of individual country including, where appropriate, the prohibition of the use of particular nutrients.
For a blend of sweetened condensed skimmed milk and vegetable fat the amount of sugar is restricted by Good Manufacturing Practice to a minimum value which safeguards the keeping quality of the product and a maximum value above which crystallization of sugar, may occur.
Other names may be used if allowed by national legislation in the country of retail sale.
When required by the country of retail sale, the common name of the vegetable from which the fat or oil is derived shall be included in the name of the food or as a separate statement.
Mexican limes for industrial processing are excluded.
Mexican limes are classified in three classes defined below:
Size Code Diameter (mm) 1 > 45 2 40.1 - 45 3 35.1 - 40 4 30.1 - 35 5 25 - 30
For all classes, 10% by number or weight of Mexican limes corresponding to the size immediately above or below that indicated on the package.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package should be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety.
b If the product contains anticaking agents (max 2 percent), this value is allowed to be maximum 3 percent for paprika and 3.6 percent for hot paprika.
If the tree nuts are obtained from around cultivation, the picker should ascertain that there are not any environmental factors inherent to that location (such as wind -, soil- and dust -borne contaminant s and pollutants) that might have a negative impact on safety concerns for tree nuts.
If the nuts cannot be transported immediately to a processing facility they should be temporarily stored in a way that will keep them dry and protected from rain, insects, rodents, birds and drainage of ground water.
Since all countries may not have the required technical expertise and experience to establish effective integrated mycotoxin management systems, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has given high priority to the provision of training professionals in developing countries on the HACCP approach and its application.
Otherwise no intermediate storage is recommended, especially for nuts expected to be marketed in-shell.
It can be GAP-dependent whether or not residues are expected; if residues are expected or will occur according to GAP, expected/measured residue levels should be assessed in comparison with possible environmentally relevant exposure levels.
Active substances and relevant metabolites that do not bioaccumulate or do not have the capacity to cause significantly toxic effects such as, corrosive, sensitizing, neurotoxic, immunotoxin, carcinogenic, mutagenic, reproductive, developmental or endocrine disrupting effects, among others at environmentally relevant levels.
Lucuma is classified into the three classes defined below:
