To screen deliveries more economically, sample units from different fish can be optionally combined (composite sample) to reduce the number of histamine analyses required, provided that the histamine level critical limit is lowered proportionately.
Section 15A.3.2.13
• If the black membrane has to be removed, then it should be done after the splitting step.
The smoking and drying process are continued until the finished product is completely dried with the final moisture content less than 10 percent or the water activity should be less than 0.75.
• The packaging should adequately protect smoke-dried fish from moisture or humidity that could raise the water activity allowing mould and/or pathogen growth.
Cookers should be designed to provide a constant and adequate supply of heat so that all lobsters undergo the same time/temperature exposure during the cooking operation.
If this is unavoidable, stringent precautions should be taken to prevent cross-contamination of the cooked product by microorganisms from raw material.
When brown meat is suspected of being associated with biotoxin con- tamination e.g. through phytoplankton monitoring or/and shellfish flesh test- ing, then testing of the brown meat may be carried out.
1. Raw material reception 2. Storage 3. Unpacking 4. Unwrapping 5. Thawing 6. Fish and shellfish preparation (gutting, trimming, etc.) 7. Preccoking or other pre-treatments 8. Packing in containers 9. Handling and staging before heat processing 10. Thermal processing 11. Cooling 12. Labelling, casing 13. Storage of canned products 14. Transportation 1. Container and cover reception 2. Container and cover storage The sequence of operations may differ according to the specific process of the factory.
Phycotoxins such as diarrhetic shellfish poisoning (DSP), paralytic shellfish poisoning (PSP) or amnesic shellfish poisoning (ASP) are also heat stable, hence, it is important to know the origin and the status of the area of origin of molluscan shellfish or other affected species intended for processing.
For some fish species, Codex adopted maximum levels for histamine in standards.
• Containers and covers for canned fish and shellfish should meet the following requirements: – they should protect the contents from contamination by microorganisms or any other substance; – their inner surfaces should not react with the contents in any way that would adversely affect the product or the containers; – their outer surfaces should be resistant to corrosion under any likely conditions of storage; and – they should be sufficiently durable to withstand the mechanical and thermal stresses encountered during the canning process and to resist physical damage during distribution.
should be minimized.
Shocks can deform the containers (can body or flange), which may compromise tightness (shocks on the seam, deformed flange) or be prejudicial to appearance.
• Care should be taken to prevent temperature abuse of scombrotoxic species before precooking.
• Care should be taken to ascertain whether or not the ingredients or additives used in dips would be permitted in canned fish and shellfish by the related Codex standards and in the countries where the product will be marketed.
It also follows that they should all be at the same temperature when they enter the cooker.
For other types of retort (water, steam/air, flame, etc.), refer to the Code of Hygienic Practice for Low and Acidified Low Acid Canned Foods (CXC 23-1979).
Similar freezing and cooking temperatures as applied to nematodes will kill the infective stages of this parasite.
All of the seafood-borne viruses causing illness are transmitted by the faecal–oral cycle and most viral gastro-enteritis outbreaks have been associated with eating contaminated shellfish, particularly raw oysters.
In general, these toxins are known to be heat stable and the only possible control measure is to check the identity of the species used.
In addition to the requirements of the General Standard for the Labelling of Pre -packaged Foods (CXS 1-1985),6 the following specific provisions apply:
If the country of origin or size of each distinctly different species is different, they should be indicated near the name of the species concerned.
Implementation of selected control measures is dependent on official recognition by the competent authority of the Trichinella status of the compartment.
Should there be an existing Codex Contact Point and a National Codex Committee, then these guidelines could serve to further improve their efficiency.
It should be noted that disturbance of the soil may lead to more germination since buried seeds will be exposed to (sun) light.
In addition, as these substances are herbicides they may still have an inhibiting effect on crops, so care should be taken in case of possible bordering arable land.
Research has shown that these methods are generally only very effective in the case of non-native plants.
When possible by national or regional laws and directives, use seed for planting that is not contaminated (e.g. certified seed).
Passion fruits for industrial processing are excluded.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce: golden passion fruit /sweet granadilla, purple passion fruit, yellow passion fruit and may be labelled as to name of the variety.
In some instances, internal growth of moulds may result from insect or other invasions of otherwise healthy tissue, resulting in occurrence of
Wet weather around the time of petal fall and of harvesting is likely to increase the risk of rot and appropriate measures, such as application of fungicide to prevent spore germination and fungal growth should be considered.
Any bruising will encourage patulin formation hence bruising should be kept to a minimum, especially if fruit is to be stored for longer than 24 hours at ambient temperature before juicing.
If this proportion is exceeded the whole consignment of fruit should be rejected.
If ungutted, it shall be practically free from undigested feed or used feed.
Any presentation of the product shall be permitted provided that it: (i) contains at least two fish in each can; (ii) meets all requirements of this standard; (iii) is adequately described on the label to avoid confusing or misleading the consumer; and (iv) contains only one fish species.
A lot will be considered as meeting the requirements of this standard when: (i) the total number of defectives , as classified according to Section 8, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (ii) the total number of sample units not meeting the presentation defined in Section 2.3 does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5; (iii) the average net weight or the average drained weight where appropriate of all sample units examined is not less than the declared weight, and provided there is no unreasonable shortage in any individual container; (iv) the food additives, hygiene and labelling requirements of Sections 4, 5 and 6 are met.
The presence in the sample unit of any matter, which has not been derived from the fish or the packing media, does not pose a threat to human health, and is readily recognized without magnification or is present at a level determined by any method including magnification that indicates non-compliance with good manufacturing and sanitation practices.
(ii) Excessively tough or fibrous flesh uncharacteristic of the species in the presentation.
A sample unit affected by distinct discolouration indicative of decomposition or rancidity or by sulphide staining of more than 5 percent of the fish by weight in the sample unit.
A sample unit affected by struvite crystals – any struvite crystal greater than 5 mm in length.
Validation through a collaborative trial is expensive to undertake and usually follows only after the method has shown acceptable performance both in a single-laboratory and a pre-validation study.
For details, refer to the Codex Guideline on Measurement Uncertainty (CAC/GL 54-2004), the section entitled “The Use of Analytical Results: Sampling Plans, Relationship between the Analytical Results, the Measurement Uncertainty, Recovery Factors and Provisions in Codex Standard” from the Codex Procedural Manual.
This is an important pre-condition for the success of the validation of the method.
While such procedures can give an indication of the performance of the method, incurred samples with well known characteristics (if available) are the best matrix on which to establish the applicability of a method.
This is also the case for end-point PCR reactions carried out using fluorescent probes.
When new data become available, a Microbiological Risk Assessment may need to be revisited.
Provided that food safety is not compromised, the provision in Section 4.7.1 (i) or Section 4.7.1 (ii) is not required for a food if one or more of the following criteria apply: 1. where safety is not compromised, and quality does not deteriorate because the nature of the food is such that it cannot support microbial growth (e. g. alcohol, salt, acidity, low-water activity) under intended or stated storage conditions; 2. where deterioration is clearly evident by physical examination at the point of purchase, such as raw fresh produce that has not been subject to processing and presented in a manner that is visible to the consumer; 3. where the key/organoleptic quality aspects of the food are not lost; 4. where the food by its nature is normally consumed within 24 hours of its manufacture, such as some bakers’ or pastry-cooks’ wares: For example, foods such as: - fresh fruits and vegetables, including tubers, which have not been peeled, cut or similarly treated; - wines, liqueur wines, sparkling wines, aromatized wines, fruit wines and sparkling fruit wines; - alcoholic beverages containing at least 10 percent alcohol by volume; - bakers’ or pastry-cooks’ wares, which given the nature of their content, are normally consumed within 24 hours of their manufacture; - vinegar; - non-iodized food grade salt; - non-fortified solid sugars; - confectionary products consisting of flavoured and/or coloured sugars; and - chewing gum. In such cases, the “date of manufacture” or the “date of packaging” may be provided.
Such disclosure is not required: (c) where the ingredient is used in small quantities for the purpose of flavouring; or (d) where commodity specific standards of Codex Alimentarius conflict with the requirements described here. With respect to Section 5.1.1(a): (e) a reference in the name of the food to an ingredient or category of ingredients shall not of itself require quantitative ingredient declaration if: ­ that reference would not mislead or deceive or would not be likely to create an erroneous impression to the consumer regarding the character of the food in the country of marketing because the variation in quantity of the ingredient(s) between products is not necessary to characterize the food or distinguish it from similar foods.
This exemption does not apply to the declaration of foods and ingredients listed in Section 4.2.1.4, Section 4.2.1.7 and where applicable Section 4.2.1.5.
This standard does not apply to products obtained from cassava tubers (tapioca), which are called sago flour in some region.
Due to time constraints, it is recognised that risk management measures may have to be taken on the basis of limited information and before the completion of a full risk assessment.
Many food safety emergencies have serious international implications and may also be reportable to WHO under the International Health Regulations (2005).
However, in other cases, the food will have entered and been distributed within a country or transhipped to other countries, and risk management and communication measures by both the exporting and importing country competent authorities will need to be amended accordingly.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Section 3.2, when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 3.3, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plans with an acceptable quality level (AQL) of 6.5.
A lot shall be considered as meeting the requirement of Section 7.1.1 when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 7.1.2, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plans with an AQL of 6.5.
A lot should be considered as meeting the requirements of Section 7.2. when the number of “defectives”, as defined in Section 7.2.1, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of the appropriate sampling plans with an AQL of 6.5.
The provisions in the general standard apply to all products unless specified otherwise.
However, in case of those mixtures, uniformity in size among species is not required.
A lot should be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in Section 3 .2 (Quality criteria) when: (1) for those requirements which are not based on averages, the number of defectives, as defined in Section 3. 3 (Classification of defectives), does not exceed the acceptance number ( c) of the appropriate sampling plan with an acceptance quality limit (AQL) of 6.5; and (2) the requirements of Section 3.2 (Quality criteria), which are based on sample averages, are complied with.
Inspection level I – Normal sampling Inspection level II – Disputes (Codex referee purposes sample size ), enforcement or need for better lot estimate
Ammoniation appears to have the most practical application for the decontamination
If organic acids are used, it is important that
If meat is inadvertently exposed to adverse temperature conditions or sources of contamination that may affect safety and suitability, an inspection should be carried out by a competent person before further transport or distribution is allowed.
Laboratory testing may be required for: - verification of process control; - Monitoring achievement of performance objectives or performance criteria; - residue monitoring; - diagnosis of disease conditions affecting individual animals; and - monitoring of zoonoses.
Where the results of organoleptic inspection are insufficient to accurately judge carcasses and other relevant parts as safe or suitable for human consumption, the parts should be set aside and followed up with confirmatory inspection procedures and/or tests.
In the case of ready-to-eat (RTE) products, microbiological verification of SSOPs for food contact and non-food contact surfaces is likely to be of higher intensity than for other types of product.
Where the establishment operator does not comply with regulatory requirements, the competent authority should carry out enforcement actions that may include:  slowing of production while the operator regains process control;  stopping production, and withdrawing certification for meat deemed to be unsafe or unsuitable for its intended use;  withdrawing official supervision, or accreditation of competent persons;  ordering specified treatment, recall or destruction of meat as necessary; and  withdrawing or suspending all or part of the approval/registration/listing of the establishment if process control systems are invalid or repeatedly non-compliant.
116. Whenever there are verifiable quality assurance (QA) systems in place in the industry, the competent authority should take them into account.
Where indicated by public health concerns, routine screening of carcasses and other relevant parts by methods other than organoleptic inspection may be required for suspected hazards, e.g. testing for Trichinella spp.
Inspected and judged by a competent person, or otherwise determined by the competent authority, as being unsafe or unsuitable for human consumption and requiring appropriate disposal.
(Note that for the purposes of this code, a game depot is a particular type of establishment).
Containing any performance objective, performance criterion or process criterion developed according to risk analysis principles.
Safe for human consumption according to the following criteria: has been produced by applying all food safety requirements appropriate to its intended end-use; meets risk-based performance and process criteria for specified hazards; and does not contain hazards at levels that are harmful to human health.
A documented system for assuring that personnel, facilities, equipment and utensils are clean and where necessary, sanitised to specified levels prior to and during operations.
Suitable for human consumption according to the following criteria: has been produced under hygienic conditions as outlined in this code; is appropriate to its intended use; and meets outcome-based parameters for specified diseases or defects as established by the competent authority.
Activities performed by the competent authority and/or competent body to determine compliance with regulatory requirements.
An official inspector who is professionally qualified as a veterinarian and carries out official meat hygiene activities as specified by the competent authority.
The principles and guidelines presented in this section are supplemental to the objectives and guidelines in Section III of the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXP 1-1969).
Utilisation of a risk management framework is the subject of on-going work within the Codex system, and is described in a number of Codex documents.
Where detailed information on the status in relation to public health, of animals destined for slaughter, is available from primary production, e.g. in the case of Salmonella spp. in fattening pigs and broiler chickens in some intensive production systems, responses in relation to process control at the establishment level, may include consideration of pre-slaughter levels of hazards.
In the paddy environment, use of soil amendments and fertilizers contaminated with significant concentration of arsenic are also sources of arsenic 2.
If appropriate, risk managers may consider implementation of source directed measures for cadmium reduction in soil, water or fertilisers that are used for rice production.
For factors evaluated on a sample average, a lot will be considered acceptable if the average meets the specified tolerance, and no individual sample is excessively out of tolerance.
If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety, class, size (if sized) expressed in accordance with any one of the following methods: count, size code and range, size range.
When determined by PER methodology, the protein quality shall not be less than 85 percent of that of casein.
For the product as defined in Section 2.1 with a protein level below 3.0 g/100 kcal a maximum level of available carbohydrates up to 14 g/100 kcal (3.3 g/100 kJ) may be permitted by competent national and/or regional authorities.
When prepared according to the directions of use, the product shall be free of lumps and of large, coarse particles.
This is not intended to be an exhaustive list but provides a guide for competent national and/or regional authorities as to appropriate levels when these substances are added.
Levels may need to be determined by national authorities.
Only the food additives listed in food category 13.1.2 (Follow -up formulae) of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995)1 or in the Advisory Lists of Nutrient Compounds for Use in Foods for Special Dietary Uses Intended for Infants and Young Children (CXG 10-1979)4 may be present in the foods described in Section 2.1 of this section, as a result of carry-over from a raw material or other ingredient (including food additive) used to produce the food, subject to the following conditions: a) The amount of the food additive in the raw materials or other ingredients (including food additives) does not exceed the maximum level specified; and b) The food into which the food additive is carried over does not contain the food additive in greater quantity than would be introduced by the use of the raw materials or ingredients under good manufacturing practice, consistent with the provisions on carry-over in the Preamble of the General Standard for Food Additives (CXS 192-1995).1
If additional mandatory nutrients are added, the nutrient levels must be based on the nutrient composition of follow-up formula for older infants (3.1.3 , Section A) which is informed by the composition of breastmilk and take into account the inherent levels of nutrients in cows’ milk.
When the product undergoes substantial transformation3 in a second country, the country in which the transformation is performed shall be considered to be the country of origin for the purpose of labelling.
A lot will be considered as meeting the applicable quality requirements referred to in subsection 2.2.6 when: (a) for those requirements which are not based on averages, the number of "defectives", as defined in subsection 2.2.6, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5 (see relevant Codex texts on methods of analysis and sampling); and (b) the requirements which are based on sample averages are complied with.
A container that fails to meet the requirement for minimum fill (90 percent container capacity) of subsection 6.1.1 shall be considered a "defective".
A lot will be considered as meeting the requirement of subsection 6.1.1 when the number of "defectives", as defined in subsection 6.1.2, does not exceed the acceptance number (c) of an appropriate sampling plan with an AQL of 6.5 (see relevant Codex texts on methods of analysis and sampling).
Further, allocation of measures to a particular category may assist countries in simplifying the extent of the equivalence determination relative to other sanitary measures making up the food control system.
When an importing country has prior experience, knowledge, and confidence in food control measures relevant to those being evaluated for equivalence and the countries agree that import requirements are being fully met, e.g. where trade experience exists, determination of the equivalence of sanitary measures may be made without further consideration of those other relevant measures making up the food control system.
These Guidelines in conjunction with the relevant OIE standards can apply from primary production to consumption for beef and pork meat produced in commercial production systems.
The control measures are articulated in this guideline at appropriate steps, however if they could be performed hygienically and effectively they could be applied in other steps in the food chain.
Additionally, transportation to the slaughter facility, handling during transport and unloading, and interaction with other pigs may cause stress and increased shedding of pathogens.
Additionally, interaction with other pigs may cause stress and increased shedding of pathogens.
This may reduce the risk of intestinal spillage at evisceration.
This can result in a shedding reflex and become a cross-contamination point due to animal contact with the ground after stunning.
This may be a particular concern with contamination of the pig’s pharynx, as subsequent carcass decontamination steps would not address this internal contamination.
Salmonella has been detected in air samples at the locations of dehairing and evisceration operations.
A vertical steam scald at 100°C allows for a constant supply of clean steam and prevents the accumulation of organic load as opposed to a water system.
Reductions exceeding 1 log10 CFU/cm2 would not be expected under commercial settings.
Any surviving bacteria may be mechanically disseminated by stainless steel scrapers or nylon brushes used in polishing.
Singeing is more effective on drier carcasses.
If the viscera are not handled properly, or if employee hygiene practices are not being followed, contamination of the carcass and edible offal can occur.
Between this step and chilling is where decontamination treatments are likely to be most effective.
Touching the carcasses with hands, tools or garments may cause cross-contamination.
Freezing of the surface during blast chilling may yield better reductions in the prevalence of Salmonella on carcasses.
Reductions exceeding 1 log10 CFU/g would not be expected under commercial setting.
This step can be a cross-contamination point if the procedures and handling are not performed in a sanitary manner and by trained and experienced employees.
When gambrel tables are used, carcass contamination should be minimized by cleaning and disinfecting gambrel table when needed to remove faecal materials before processing is resumed.
Organic acid treatments would be expected to achieve up to 0.5 to 1 log10 CFU/cm2 reduction of the Salmonella concentration on the carcass.
Three types of contamination represent hazards at most stages of on-farm production of feed and feed ingredients, namely: Biological, such as bacteria, fungi and other microbial pathogens; Chemical, such as residues of medication, pesticides, fertilizer or other agricultural substances; and Physical, such as broken needles, machinery and other foreign material.
the animal has been treated between 24 and 72 hours prior to embarkation with praziquantel (5 mg/kg), or another cestocidal product with comparable efficacy against intestinal forms of E. granulosus; heat treatment to a core temperature of at least 80°C for ten minutes or an equivalent time and temperature; a) the detailed epidemiological situation of FMD in the country, highlighting the current knowledge and gaps; b) the main production systems and movement patterns of susceptible animals and their products within and into the country and, where applicable, the specific zone; have a record of regular and prompt animal disease reporting in accordance with Chapter 1.1.; A country or zone may be considered free from the disease after conducting a risk assessment as referred to in Article 9.2.3. but without formally applying a specific surveillance programme if the country or zone complies with Chapter 1.4. a) were vaccinated against VEE not less than 60 days prior to shipment and were clearly identified with a permanent mark at the time of vaccination; b) were kept in a quarantine station in the country of origin under official veterinary supervision for three weeks prior to shipment and remained clinically healthy during that period; any animal which showed a rise in temperature (taken daily) was subjected to a blood test for virus isolation, with negative results; c) were protected from insect vectors during transportation to and from the quarantine station and during the quarantine period; d) showed no clinical sign of VEE on the day of shipment; a) the detailed epidemiological situation of PPR in the country, highlighting the current knowledge and gaps; b) the main production systems and movement patterns of sheep and goats and their products within and into the country and, where applicable, the specific zone;
Potential risk management strategies include a combination of: i) treating animals with chemical repellents prior to and during transportation, in sanitized vehicles treated with appropriate residual contact insecticide; ii) loading, transporting and unloading animals at times of low vector activity (i.e. bright sunshine and low temperature); iii) ensuring vehicles do not stop en route during dawn or dusk, or overnight, unless the animals are held behind insect proof netting; iv) darkening the interior of the vehicle, for example by covering the roof or sides of vehicles with shade cloth; v) surveillance for vectors at common stopping and offloading points to gain information on seasonal variations; vi) using historical, ongoing or modelling information on AHS to identify low risk ports and transport routes.
means a mammal, reptile, bird or bee.
In situations in which skins and trophies from wild animals may be contaminated with B. anthracis spores, the following disinfection procedure is recommended: 1) fumigation with ethylene oxide 500 mg/litre, at relative humidity 20–40%, at 55°C for 30 minutes; or 2) fumigation with formaldehyde 400 mg/m³ at relative humidity 30%, at >15°C for 4 hours; or 3) gamma irradiation with a dose of 40 kilogray.
The AD free or provisionally free status of a country or zone can only be determined after considering the following criteria, as applicable: 1) AD is notifiable in the whole country, and all clinical signs suggestive of AD are subjected to field and laboratory investigations; 2) an ongoing awareness programme is in place to encourage reporting of all cases suggestive of AD; 3) the Veterinary Authority has current knowledge of, and authority over, all domestic and captive wild pig establishments in the country or zone; 4) the Veterinary Authority has current knowledge about the population and habitat of wild and feral pigs in the country or zone; 5) appropriate surveillance, capable of detecting the presence of infection even in the absence of clinical signs, is in place; this may be achieved through a surveillance programme in accordance with Chapter 1.4.
When authorising import or transit of the following commodities and any products made from these, Veterinary Authorities should not require any AD-related conditions, regardless of the AD status of the exporting country or zone: 1) fresh meat of domestic and wild pigs not containing offal (head, and thoracic and abdominal viscera); 2) meat products of domestic and wild pigs not containing offal (head, and thoracic and abdominal viscera); 3) products of animal origin not containing offal (head, and thoracic and abdominal viscera).
Clinical surveillance aims at detecting clinical signs by close physical examination of equids.
Cumulative results of targeted and general surveillance will increase the level of confidence in the surveillance strategy.
If virus isolation is required, sentinels should be sampled at sufficiently frequent intervals to ensure that samples are collected during the period of viraemia.
When authorising import or transit of the following commodities, Veterinary Authorities should not require any bluetongue-related conditions regardless of the bluetongue status of the exporting country: 1) milk and milk products; 2) meat and meat products; 3) hides and skins; 4) wool and fibre; 5) in vivo derived bovine embryos collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapter 4.8.
3) For the application of Articles 8.3.7., 8.3.9. and 8.3.11., the free season is taken to conclude either: a) at least 28 days before the earliest date that historical data show transmission of BTV may recommence; or b) immediately if current climatic data or data from a surveillance programme indicate transmission of BTV or an earlier resurgence of activity of adult Culicoides. 4) A seasonally free zone in which ongoing surveillance has found no evidence that Culicoides are present will not lose its free status through the introduction of vaccinated, seropositive or infective ruminants or camelids, or semen or embryos from infected countries or zones.
For the purposes of this chapter, a country or zone infected with BTV is one that does not fulfil the requirements to qualify as either free or seasonally free from bluetongue.
For ruminants and camelids Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the animals showed no clinical sign of bluetongue on the day of shipment; AND 2) the animals were kept in a country or zone free from bluetongue since birth or for at least 60 days prior to shipment; or 3) the animals were kept in a country or zone free from bluetongue for at least 28 days, then were subjected, with negative results, to a serological test to detect antibodies to the BTV group and remained in the free country or zone until shipment; or 4) the animals were kept in a country or zone free from bluetongue for at least 14 days, then were subjected, with negative results, to an agent identification test, and remained in the free country or zone until shipment; or
For ruminants and camelids Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the animals: 1) showed no clinical sign of bluetongue on the day of shipment;
For semen of ruminants and camelids Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that:
Clinical surveillance may be effective in sheep while serological surveillance is more appropriate in bovines.
A country or zone may be considered free from infection with Brucella in specified animal categories when: 1) infection with Brucella in animals is a notifiable disease in the entire country; 2) historical freedom in the relevant animal categories has been demonstrated as described in Article 1.4.6.
1) To qualify as free from infection with Brucella in bovids without vaccination, a country or zone should satisfy the following requirements:
1) To qualify as free from infection with Brucella in bovids with vaccination, a country or zone should satisfy the following requirements:
1) To qualify as free from infection with Brucella in sheep and goats without vaccination, a country or zone should satisfy the following requirements: a) infection with Brucella in animals is a notifiable disease in the entire country; b) no case has been recorded in sheep and goats for at least the past three years; c) regular testing of all flocks has been in place for the past three years; and this testing has demonstrated that during this period, infection with Brucella was not present in at least 99.8% of the flocks representing at least 99.9% of sheep and goats in the country or zone; d) regulatory measures have been implemented for the early detection of infection with Brucella in sheep and goats, including at least the regular submission of samples from abortion cases to diagnostic laboratories; e) no sheep and goats have been vaccinated against infection with Brucella for at least the past three years and no sheep and goats introduced into the country or zone have been vaccinated in the past three years; f) sheep and goats and their genetic materials introduced into the country or zone comply with the recommendations in Articles 8.4.14. and 8.4.16. to 8.4.18. 2) To maintain the status as free from infection with Brucella in sheep and goats without vaccination, a country or zone should satisfy the following requirements: a) the requirements in points 1 a), 1 b) and 1 d) to 1 f) of above are met; b) a surveillance programme based on regular testing of sheep and goats is in place in the country or zone to detect infection with Brucella in accordance with Article 1.4.4.; c) if the surveillance programme described in b) above has not detected infection with Brucella for two consecutive years, surveillance may be maintained in accordance with Article 1.4.5. 3) The country or zone status of free from infection with Brucella in sheep and goats without vaccination is not affected by the occurrence of infection with Brucella in other animal categories or feral or wild animals provided that effective measures have been implemented to prevent transmission of infection with Brucella to sheep and goats.
1) To qualify as free from infection with Brucella in sheep and goats with vaccination, a country or zone should satisfy the following requirements: a) infection with Brucella in animals is a notifiable disease in the entire country; b) no case has been recorded in sheep and goats for at least the past three years; c) regular testing of all flocks has been in place for the past three years; and this testing has demonstrated that during this period, infection with Brucella was not present in at least 99.8% of the flocks representing at least 99.9% of sheep and goats in the country or zone; d) regulatory measures have been implemented for the early detection of infection with Brucella in sheep and goats, including at least the regular submission of samples from abortion cases to diagnostic laboratories; e) vaccinated sheep and goats should be permanently identified as such; f) sheep and goats and their genetic materials introduced into the country or zone comply with the recommendations in Articles 8.4.14. and 8.4.16. to 8.4.18.
2) To maintain the status as free from infection with Brucella in sheep and goats with vaccination, a country or zone should satisfy the following requirements: a) the requirements in points 1 a), 1 b) and 1 d) to 1 f) of above are met; b) a surveillance programme based on regular testing of sheep and goats is in place in the country or zone to detect infection with Brucella in accordance with Article 1.4.4.; c) if the surveillance programme described in b) above has not detected infection with Brucella for two consecutive years, surveillance may be maintained in accordance with Article 1.4.5. 3) The country or zone status of free from infection with Brucella in sheep and goats with vaccination is not affected by the occurrence of infection with Brucella in other animal categories or feral or wild animals provided that effective measures have been implemented to prevent transmission of infection with Brucella to sheep and goats. 4) The status of a country or zone free from infection with Brucella in sheep and goats with vaccination remains unchanged for a period of three years after vaccination has ceased, provided that the requirements in points 1 a), 1 b) and 1 d) to 1 f) of Article 8.4.6. are met, at which time this status may be changed to free from infection with Brucella in sheep and goats without vaccination.
1) To qualify as free from infection with Brucella in camelids, a country or zone should satisfy the following requirements: a) infection with Brucella in animals is a notifiable disease in the entire country; b) no case has been recorded in camelids for at least the past three years; c) regular testing of all herds has been in place for the past three years; and this testing has demonstrated that during this period, infection with Brucella was not present in at least 99.8% of the herds representing at least 99.9% of camelids in the country or zone; d) regulatory measures have been implemented for the early detection of infection with Brucella in camelids, including at least the regular submission of samples of abortion cases to diagnostic laboratories; e) no camelids have been vaccinated against infection with Brucella for at least the past three years and no camelids introduced into the country or zone have been vaccinated in the past three years; f) camelids and their genetic materials introduced into the country or zone comply with the recommendations in Articles 8.4.14. and 8.4.16. to 8.4.18. 2) To maintain the status as free from infection with Brucella in camelids, a country or zone should satisfy the following requirements: a) the requirements in points 1 a), 1 b) and 1 d) to 1 f) of above are met; b) a surveillance programme based on regular testing of camelids is in place in the country or zone to detect infection with Brucella in accordance with Article 1.4.4.; c) if the surveillance programme described in b) above has not detected infection with Brucella for two consecutive years, surveillance may be maintained in accordance with Article 1.4.5. 3) The country or zone status of free from infection with Brucella in camelids is not affected by the occurrence of infection with Brucella in other animal categories or feral or wild animals provided that effective measures have been implemented to prevent transmission of infection with Brucella to camelids.
To qualify as free from infection with Brucella without vaccination, a herd or flock of bovids, sheep and goats, camelids or cervids should satisfy the following requirements: a) the herd or flock is in a country or zone free from infection with Brucella without vaccination in the relevant animal category and is certified free without vaccination by the Veterinary Authority; OR b) the herd or flock is in a country or zone free from infection with Brucella with vaccination in the relevant animal category and is certified free without vaccination by the Veterinary Authority; and no animal of the herd or flock has been vaccinated in the past three years; OR c) the herd or flock met the following conditions: i) infection with Brucella in animals is a notifiable disease in the entire country; ii) no animal of the relevant category of the herd or flock has been vaccinated in the past three years; iii) no case has been detected in the herd or flock for at least the past year; iv) animals showing clinical signs consistent with infection with Brucella such as abortions have been subjected to the necessary diagnostic tests with negative results; v) for at least the past year, there has been no evidence of infection with Brucella in other herds or flocks of the same establishment, or measures have been implemented to prevent any transmission of the infection with Brucella from these other herds or flocks; vi) two tests have been performed with negative results on all sexually mature animals, i.e. except castrated males and spayed females, present in the herd at the time of testing, the first test being performed not before 3 months after the slaughter of the last case and the second test at an interval of more than 6and less than 12 months.
To qualify as free from infection with Brucella in cervids, a country or zone should satisfy the following requirements: a) infection with Brucella in animals is a notifiable disease in the entire country; b) no case has been recorded in cervids for at least the past three years; c) regular testing of all herds has been in place for the past three years; and this testing has demonstrated that during this period, infection with Brucella was not present in at least 99.8% of the herds representing at least 99.9% of cervids in the country or zone; d) regulatory measures have been implemented for the early detection of infection with Brucella in cervids, including at least the regular submission of samples from abortion cases to diagnostic laboratories; e) no cervids have been vaccinated against infection with Brucella for at least the past three years and no cervids introduced into the country or zone have been vaccinated in the past three years; f) cervids and their genetic materials introduced into the country or zone comply with the recommendations in Articles 8.4.14. and 8.4.16. to 8.4.18.
1) To qualify as free from infection with Brucella with vaccination, a herd of bovids or flock of sheep and goats should satisfy the following requirements: a) the herd or flock is in a country or zone free from infection with Brucella with vaccination for the relevant animal category and is certified free with vaccination by the Veterinary Authority; OR b) the herd or flock met the following conditions: i) infection with Brucella in animals is a notifiable disease in the entire country; ii) vaccinated animals of the relevant categories are permanently identified as such; iii) no case has been detected in the herd or flock for at least the past year; iv) animals showing clinical signs consistent with infection with Brucella such as abortions have been subjected to the necessary diagnostic tests with negative results; v) for at least the past year, there has been no evidence of infection with Brucella in other herds or flocks of the same establishment, or measures have been implemented to prevent any transmission of the infection with Brucella from these other herds or flocks; vi) two tests have been performed with negative results on all sexually mature animals present in the herd at the time of testing, the first test being performed not before 3 months after the slaughter of the last case and the second test at an interval of more than 6 and less than 12 months.
In order to prevent and control infection with E. granulosus, the Veterinary Authority or other Competent Authority should carry out community awareness programmes about the risk factors associated with transmission of
Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that:
Any changes in the epidemiological situation or other significant events should be notified to WOAH in accordance with Chapter 1.1.
The approval should only be granted when no infection with, or transmission of, FMDV has occurred within a 10-kilometre radius of the compartment during the three months prior to the application of the biosecurity plan.
This may be achieved either by meeting the requirements listed in a) below or by demonstrating
When sentinel animals are used, vector surveillance should be conducted at the same locations.
In addition to the general conditions described in this chapter, a Member Country seeking either recovery of status of a country or zone previously free from FMD where vaccination is not practised, including a containment zone , or recovery of status of a country or zone previously free from FMD where vaccination is practised, earlier than the six months as specified respectively under point 1 c) of Article 8.8.11. or under point 3 a) of Article 8.8.11. should
NB: FIRST ADOPTED IN 1992; MOST RECENT UPDATE ADOPTED IN 1998.
A country or zone that does not fulfil the requirements of Article 8.15.2. is considered to be infected with rabies virus.
1) A country or zone may be considered free from dog-mediated rabies when: a) it has a record of regular and prompt animal disease reporting in accordance with Chapter 1.1.; b) dog-mediated rabies is a notifiable disease in the entire country and any change in the epidemiological situation or relevant events are reported in accordance with Chapter 1.1.; c) an ongoing system of surveillance in accordance with Chapter 1.4. and Article 8.15.13. has been in place for the past 24 months, with a minimum requirement being an early warning system to ensure investigation and reporting of animals suspected of infection with rabies virus; d) regulatory measures for the prevention of infection with rabies virus are implemented in accordance with the relevant recommendations in the Terrestrial Code including Articles 8.15.5. to 8.15.10.; e) no case of indigenously acquired dog-mediated rabies has occurred during the past 24 months; f) a dog population control programme has been implemented and maintained in accordance with Chapter 7.7. 2) The following do not affect the status of a country or zone free from dog-mediated rabies: – preventive vaccination; – presence of rabies virus in wild animals; – imported human cases of rabies; – imported case outside a quarantine station whenever epidemological investigations have ruled out the possibility of secondary cases.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate complying with the model of Chapter 5.11. attesting that the animals: 1) showed no clinical sign of rabies the day prior to or on the day of shipment; 2) were permanently identified and their identification number stated in the certificate; 3) and either: a) were vaccinated or revaccinated in accordance with the recommendations of the manufacturer, with a vaccine that was produced in accordance with the Terrestrial Manual and were subjected not less than 3 months and not more than 12 months prior to shipment to an antibody titration test as prescribed in the Terrestrial Manual with a positive result of at least 0.5 IU/ml; or b) were kept in a quarantine station for six months prior to shipment.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the animals: 1) showed no clinical sign of rabies the day prior to or on the day of shipment; 2) were permanently identified and the identification number stated in the certificate;
1) Countries that are adjacent to a country infected with RPV; or 2) Countries that have relevant epidemiological or ecological links through trade or animal movements to a country infected with RPV.
If the conditions below are met within 12 months, then global freedom will remain suspended, subject to periodic review by WOAH.
A country may be considered free from tularemia when it has been shown that tularemia has not been present for at least the past two years and when bacteriological or serological surveys in previously infected zones have given negative results.
A zone should be considered as infected with tularemia until: 1) at least one year has elapsed after the last case has been confirmed; AND 2) a bacteriological survey on ticks within the infected zone has given negative results; or 3) regular serological testing of hares and rabbits from that zone have given negative results.
When authorising import or transit of the following commodities and any products made from these, Veterinary Authorities should not require any WNV-related conditions, regardless of the WNF status of the exporting country or zone: 1) hatching eggs; 2) eggs for human consumption; 3) egg products; 4) poultry semen; 5) fresh meat and meat products of poultry; 6) products of poultry origin intended for use in animal feeding, or for agricultural or industrial use; 7) feathers and down from poultry; 8) semen of horses; 9) meat and meat products of horses.
2) A WNF free country or zone will not lose its free status through the importation from WNF infected countries or zones of: a) seropositive animals; b) semen, oocyte or embryo; c) animals vaccinated in accordance with the Terrestrial Manual at least 30 days prior to dispatch, and are identified in the accompanying certification as having been vaccinated; or d) animals not vaccinated if a surveillance programme in accordance with ChapterX.X. has been in place in the source population for a period of 30days immediately prior to dispatch, and no evidence of WNV transmission has been detected.
3) For the application of Article 8.21.6., the seasonally free period is taken to conclude either: a) at least 21 days before the earliest date that historical data show WNV transmission cycle has recommenced; or b) immediately if current climatic data or data from a surveillance programme indicate an earlier resurgence of activity of mosquitoes likely to be competent WNV vectors. 4) A WNF seasonally free country or zone will not lose its free status through the importation from WNF infected countries or zones of: a) seropositive animals; b) semen, oocyte or embryo; c) animals vaccinated in accordance with the Terrestrial Manual at least 30 days prior to dispatch, and are identified in the accompanying certification as having been vaccinated; or d) animals not vaccinated if a surveillance programme in accordance with ChapterX.X. has been in place in the source population for a period of 30days immediately prior to dispatch, and no evidence of WNV transmission has been detected.
For ducks (under study), geese and birds other than poultry Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the animals were kept in a WNF free country or zone since birth or for at least 30 days prior to shipment; or 2) the animals were kept in a WNF free country or zone for at least 15 days, were subjected, with negative results, to an agent identification test in accordance with the Terrestrial Manual carried out on a sample collected at least 3 days after the commencement of the residence period and remained in the WNF free country or zone until shipment; or
For ducks (under study), geese and birds other than poultry Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the animals: 1) were kept during the seasonally free period in a WNF seasonally free country or zone since birth or for at least 30 days prior to shipment; or 2) were kept during the WNF seasonally free period in a WNF seasonally free country or zone for at least 15 days prior to shipment, and were subjected during the residence period in the country or zone to an agent identification test in accordance with the Terrestrial Manual, with negative results, carried out on a sample collected at least 3 days after the commencement of the residence period and remained in the WNF seasonally free country or zone until shipment; or 3) were kept during the seasonally free period in a WNF seasonally free country or zone for at least 15 days prior to shipment, and were vaccinated in accordance with the Terrestrial Manual 30 days before introduction into the free country or zone against WNF, were identified as having been vaccinated and remained in the WNF seasonally free country or zone until shipment; AND 4) if the animals were exported from a WNF seasonally free country or zone, either: a) did not transit through an infected country or zone during transportation to the place of shipment; or b) were protected from mosquito attacks at all times when transiting through an infected country or zone; or c) were vaccinated in accordance with point 3 above.
no evidence of WNV transmission has been detected;
Potential risk management strategies include: 1) treating animals with insect repellents prior to and during transportation; 2) ensuring vehicles do not stop en route unless the animals are held behind insect-proof netting; 3) surveillance for vectors at common stopping and offloading points to gain information on seasonal variations; 4) integrated pest management practices at holding, common stopping and offloading points; 5) using historical, ongoing and/or WNF modelling information to identify low risk ports and transport routes.
When authorising import or transit of the following commodities, Veterinary Authorities should not require any acarapisosis-related conditions, regardless of the acarapisosis status of the honey bee population of the exporting country or zone: 1) pre-imago (eggs, larvae and pupae) of honey bees; 2) honey bee semen; 3) honey bee venom; 4) used apicultural equipment; 5) honey; 6) bee-collected pollen; 7) propolis; 8) beeswax; 9) royal jelly.
The acarapisosis status of a country or zone can only be determined after considering the following criteria: 1) a risk assessment has been conducted, identifying all potential factors for acarapisosis occurrence and their historic perspective; 2) acarapisosis is notifiable in the whole country or zone, and all clinical signs suggestive of acarapisosis are subjected to field and laboratory investigations; 3) an ongoing awareness programme is in place to encourage reporting of all cases suggestive of acarapisosis; 4) the Veterinary Authority or other Competent Authority with responsibility for reporting and control of diseases of honey bees has current knowledge of, and authority over, all domesticated apiaries in the whole country.
either there is no wild or self-sustaining feral population of species of the genus Apis in the country or zone, or there is an ongoing surveillance programme of the wild or self-sustaining feral population of species of the genus Apis which demonstrates no evidence of the presence of the disease in the country or zone;
When authorising import or transit of the following commodities, Veterinary Authorities should not require any American foulbrood-related conditions, regardless of the American foulbrood status of the honey bee population of the exporting country or zone: 1) honey bee semen; 2) honey bee venom; 3) honey bee eggs.
The American foulbrood status of a country or zone can only be determined after considering the following criteria: 1) a risk assessment has been conducted, identifying all potential factors for American foulbrood occurrence and their historic perspective; 2) American foulbrood is notifiable in the whole country or zone, and all clinical signs suggestive of American foulbrood are subjected to field and laboratory investigations; 3) an ongoing awareness programme is in place to encourage reporting of all cases suggestive of American foulbrood; 4) the Veterinary Authority or other Competent Authority with responsibility for reporting and control of diseases of honey bees has current knowledge of, and authority over, all domesticated apiaries in the country.
When authorising import or transit of the following commodities, Veterinary Authorities should not require any European foulbrood-related conditions, regardless of the European foulbrood status of the honey bee population of the exporting country or zone: 1) honey bee semen; 2) honey bee venom.
The European foulbrood status of a country or zone can only be determined after considering the following criteria: 1) a risk assessment has been conducted, identifying all potential factors for European foulbrood occurrence and their historic perspective; 2) European foulbrood is notifiable in the whole country or zone, and all clinical signs suggestive of European foulbrood are subjected to field and laboratory investigations; 3) an ongoing awareness programme is in place to encourage reporting of all cases suggestive of European foulbrood; 4) the Veterinary Authority or other Competent Authority with responsibility for reporting and control of diseases of honey bees has current knowledge of, and authority over, all apiaries in the whole country.
A country or zone may be considered free from the disease after conducting a risk assessment as referred to in Article 9.3.3. but without formally applying a specific surveillance programme if the country or zone complies with Chapter 1.4. 2) Free status as a result of an eradication programme A country or zone which does not meet the conditions of point 1 above may be considered free from European foulbrood after conducting a risk assessment as referred to in Article 9.3.3. and when: a) the Veterinary Authority or other Competent Authority with responsibility for reporting and control of diseases of honey bees has current knowledge of, and authority over, all domesticated apiaries existing in the country or zone; b) European foulbrood is notifiable in the whole country or zone, and any clinical cases suggestive of European foulbrood are subjected to field and laboratory investigations; c) for the three years following the last reported isolation of the European foulbrood agent, an annual survey supervised by the Veterinary Authority or other Competent Authority, with no positive results, have been carried out on a representative sample of apiaries in the country or zone to provide a confidence level of at least 95% of detecting European foulbrood if at least 1% of the apiaries were infected at a within- apiary prevalence rate of at least 5% of the hives; such surveys may be targeted towards areas with the last reported isolation of the European foulbrood agent; d) to maintain free status, an annual survey supervised by the Veterinary Authority or other Competent Authority, with no positive results, is carried out on a representative sample of hives in the country or zone to indicate that there has been no new isolations; such surveys may be targeted towards areas with a higher likelihood of isolation; e) either there is no wild or self-sustaining feral population of species of the genus Apis in the country or zone, or there is an ongoing surveillance programme of the wild or self-sustaining feral population of species of the genus Apis which demonstrates no evidence of the presence of the disease in the country or zone; f) the importation of the commodities listed in this chapter into the country or zone is carried out in accordance with the recommendations of this chapter.
Recommendations for the importation of live queen, worker and drone honey bees with or without associated brood combs Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the honey bees come from apiaries situated in a country or zone free from European foulbrood; or 2) the shipment comprises only honey bees without associated brood combs and: a) the honey bees come from apiaries meeting the conditions prescribed in Article 4.15.5.; and b) the apiaries where the honey bees come from are situated in the centre of an area with a radius of 3 kilometres where there has been no outbreak of European foulbrood during the past 30 days.
Recommendations for the importation of eggs, larvae and pupae of honey bees Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the commodities: 1) come from apiaries situated in a country or zone free from European foulbrood; or 2) have been isolated from queens in a quarantine station , and all workers which accompanied the queen or a representative sample of eggs or larvae were examined for the presence of M. plutonius by bacterial culture or PCR in accordance with the Terrestrial Manual.
Standards for diagnostic tests and vaccines, including pathogenicity testing, are described in the Terrestrial Manual.
The movements of migratory water birds, in particular ducks, geese and swans, should be taken into account as a potential pathway for introduction of virus to uninfected areas.
If a stamping-out policy is not implemented, Article 10.4.3. applies.
Procedures for the inactivation of high pathogenicity avian influenza viruses in collection specimens and in skins and trophies For the inactivation of high pathogenicity avian influenza viruses in collection specimens and in skins and trophies, one of the following procedures should be used: 1) boiling in water for an appropriate time to ensure that any material other than bone, claws or beaks is removed; or 2) soaking, with agitation, in a 4% (w/v) solution of washing soda (sodium carbonate-Na2CO3) maintained at pH 11.5 or above for at least 48 hours; or 3) soaking, with agitation, in a formic acid solution (100 kg salt [NaCl] and 12 kg formic acid per 1,000 litres water) maintained below pH 3.0 for at least 48 hours; wetting and dressing agents may be added; or 4) in the case of raw hides, treatment for at least 28 days with salt (NaCl) containing 2% washing soda (sodium carbonate-Na2CO3); or 5) treatment with 1% formalin for a minimum of six days; or 6) any equivalent treatment which has been demonstrated to inactivate the virus.
Where scientifically documented, variances from these times and temperatures may also be suitable when they achieve the inactivation of the virus.
If no documented evidence is provided or if it is not accepted by WOAH, the provisions of Article 11.4.4. or Article 11.4.5. apply.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the bovine from which the fresh meat and meat products were derived are identified through an animal identification system; 2) they have been subjected to an ante-mortem inspection with favourable results; 3) they were born and kept in: a) a country, zone or compartment posing a negligible BSE risk; or b) a country, zone or compartment posing a controlled BSE risk after the date from which the risk of the BSE agents being recycled within the bovine population has been demonstrated to be negligible; or c) a country, zone or compartment posing a controlled BSE risk before the date from which the risk of the BSE agents being recycled within the bovine population has been demonstrated to be negligible, and the fresh meat and meat products: i) were derived from bovines not subjected to a stunning process with a device injecting compressed air or gas into the cranial cavity, or to a pithing process, or to any other procedure that can contaminate blood with nervous tissue, prior to slaughter; and ii) were produced and handled in a manner which ensures that such products do not contain and are not contaminated with the commodities listed in point 1 of Article 11.4.15. or mechanically separated meat from the skull or from the vertebral column of bovines over 30 months of age.
When authorising import or transit of the following commodities, Veterinary Authorities should not require any CBPP-related conditions, regardless of the CBPP status of the domestic bovids and water buffalo population of the exporting country, zone or compartment: 1) milk and milk products; 2) hides and skins; 3) meat and meat products (excluding lung).
To qualify for inclusion in the existing list of CBPP free countries and zones, a Member Country should: 1) have a record of regular and prompt animal disease reporting; 2) send a declaration to WOAH stating that: a) there has been no outbreak of CBPP during the past 24 months; b) no evidence of CBPP infection has been found during the past 24 months;
Where a stamping-out policy is not practised, the above waiting periods do not apply but Article 11.5.3. applies.
When the requirements for acceptance as a CBPP free country or zone are not fulfilled, a country or zone shall be considered as infected.
The bilateral recognition of a CBPP free compartment should follow the principles laid down in this chapter and in Chapters 4.4. and 4.5.
Qualification To qualify as free from IBR/IPV, a country or zone should satisfy the following requirements: a) the disease or suspicion of the disease is notifiable; b) no animal has been vaccinated against IBR/IPV for at least three years; c) at least 99.8% of the herds are qualified as free from IBR/IPV.
A country or zone free from LSD that is adjacent to an infected country or zone should include a zone in which surveillance is conducted in accordance with Article 11.9.15.
. 2) When preventive vaccination is conducted in a country or zone free from LSD, in response to a threat but without the occurrence of a case of LSD, free status may be regained eight months after the last vaccination when clinical, virological and serological surveillance conducted in accordance with Article 11.9.15. has demonstrated no occurrence of infection with LSDV.
Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) these products were derived from animals that have been kept in a country or zone free from LSD since birth or for at least the past 28 days; or 2) these products were processed to ensure the destruction of the LSDV and the necessary precautions were taken after processing to avoid contact of the commodities with any potential source of LSDV.
1) A country or zone may be considered free from AHS when infection with AHSV is notifiable in the whole country, systematic vaccination is prohibited, importation of equids and their semen, oocytes or embryos are carried out in accordance with this chapter, and either: a) historical freedom as described in Chapter 1.4. has demonstrated no evidence of AHSV in the country or zone; or b) the country or zone has not reported any case of AHS for at least twoyears and is not adjacent to an infected country or zone; or c) a surveillance programme has demonstrated no evidence of AHSV in the country or zone for at least two years; or d) the country or zone has not reported any case of AHS for at least 40days and a surveillance programme has demonstrated no evidence of Culicoides for at least two years in the country or zone.
For the purposes of this chapter, an AHS infected country or zone is one that does not fulfil the requirements to qualify as AHS free.
For this to be achieved, the Veterinary Authority should provide documented evidence that: 1) the outbreaks are limited based on the following factors: a) immediately on suspicion, a rapid response including notification has been made; b) standstill of movements of equids has been imposed, and effective controls on the movement of equids and their products specified in this chapter are in place; c) epidemiological investigation (trace-back, trace-forward) has been completed; d) the infection has been confirmed; e) investigations on the likely source of the outbreak have been carried out; f) all cases have been shown to be epidemiologically linked; g) no new cases have been found in the containment zone within a minimum of two infective periods as defined in Article 12.1.1.; 2) the equids within the containment zone are clearly identifiable as belonging to the containment zone; 3) increased passive and targeted surveillance in accordance with Articles 12.1.11. to 12.1.13. in the rest of the country or zone has not detected any evidence of infection; 4) animal health measures are in place to effectively prevent the spread of AHSV infection to the rest of the country or zone, taking into consideration the establishment of a protection zone within the containment zone, the seasonal vector conditions and existing physical, geographical and ecological barriers;
Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that: 1) the donor animals: a) showed no clinical sign of AHS on the day of collection of the oocytes or embryos and for the following 40 days; b) had not been immunised against AHS with a live attenuated vaccine within 40 days prior to the day of collection; c) were either: i) kept in an AHS free country or zone for at least 40days before commencement of, and during collection of the oocytes or embryos, or ii) kept in an AHS free vector-protected collection centre throughout the collection period, and subjected to either: – a serological test to detect antibodies against the AHSV group carried out with a negative result on a blood sample collected at least 28 days and not more than 90 days after the last collection of oocytes or embryos; or – agent identification tests carried out with negative results on blood samples collected at commencement and conclusion of, and at least every seven days during oocytes or embryos collection for this consignment; 2) the embryos were collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.8. and 4.10., as relevant; 3) the semen used to fertilise the oocytes complies at least with the requirements in Article 12.1.8.
A country formerly infected with dourine may be considered free again when: 1) a stamping-out policy has been practised for affected animals; 2) no clinical case of dourine has been observed during the past two years; 3) breeding horses have been subjected to a diagnostic test for dourine with negative results performed annually over a two-year period.
When authorising the importation or transit of the following commodities, Veterinary Authorities should not require any EIV-related conditions, regardless of the animal health status of the exporting country, zone or compartment: 1) equine semen; 2) in vivo derived equine embryos collected, processed and stored in accordance with Chapters 4.8. and 4.10., as relevant; 3) meat and meat products from equids that have been slaughtered in a slaughterhouse/abattoir and have been subjected to ante- and post-mortem inspections with favourable results.
The EI status of a country, a zone or a compartment can be determined on the basis of the following criteria: 1) the outcome of a risk assessment identifying all risk factors and their historic relevance;
A country, zone or compartment seeking freedom from EI should apply appropriate movement controls to minimise the risk of introduction of EIV in accordance with this chapter and should be in accordance with relevant requirements and principles described in Chapter 4.4. and Chapter 4.5.
If a case of infection with EIV occurs in a previously free country, zone or compartment, free status can be regained 12 months after the last case, provided that outbreaks were managed in accordance with Chapter 4.19. and that surveillance, in accordance with Article 12.6.4., has been carried out during that 12-month period, with negative results.
If the importation of horses on a temporary basis does not comply with the recommendations in Article 12.7.5., Veterinary Authorities of importing countries should: 1) require: a) that the horses be accompanied by a passport in accordance with the model contained in Chapter 5.12. or be individually identified as belonging to a high health status subpopulation as defined in Chapter 4.17.; b) the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the horses: i) showed no clinical sign of infection with T. equi or B. caballi on the day of shipment; ii) were maintained free from ticks in accordance with Article 12.7.7. during the 30 days prior to shipment and during transport; c) that the duration of the temporary importation period and the destination after this period, as well as the conditions required to leave the country or zone, be defined; 2) ensure that during their stay in the country or zone: a) the horses are protected from ticks in accordance with Article 12.7.7.; b) horses are examined daily for the presence of ticks with particular attention to the ears, false nostrils, inter-mandibular space, mane, lower body areas, including the axillae, and inguinal region, and the perineum and tail, with negative results; c) the horses are not subjected to any practice that may represent a risk of iatrogenic transmission of infection with T. equi or B. caballi.
The surveillance should be carried out particularly over the border with that country or zone unless there are relevant ecological or geographical features likely to limit the spatial distribution and thereby prevent the infestation of equids from competent ticks and interrupt the transmission of infection with T. equi or B. caballi.
If a country considered free from VEE imports horses from an infected country, the importing country will not be considered infected, provided that the importation has been carried out in accordance with Article 12.11.5.
This period may be reduced to six months after the last case has been destroyed and disinfection procedures have been completed in countries adopting a stamping-out policy, and where serological surveillance confirmed that no case occurred in the wild leporids.
A previously infected establishment may be considered free when six months have elapsed after the last case has been eliminated, and after: 1) a stamping-out policy has been adopted and carcasses have been disposed of by burning; 2) the rabbitry has been thoroughly disinfected and kept empty for at least six weeks; 3) the rabbitry is properly fenced to prevent the straying of wild lagomorphs into the rabbitry.
For the inactivation of PPRV in casings of sheep and goats, the following procedures should be used: treatment for at least 30 days either with dry salt (NaCl) or with saturated brine ( a w< 0.80), or with phosphate supplemented salt containing 86.5% NaCl, 10.7% Na2HPO4 and 2.8% Na3PO4 (weight/weight/weight), either dry or as a saturated brine (a w< 0.80), and kept at a temperature of 20°C or more during this entire period.
Where they exist, susceptible domestic species, and feral populations of these species, should be included in the design of the surveillance strategy.
The scrapie status of the sheep and goat populations of a country, zone, compartment or establishment should be determined on the basis of the following criteria: 1) the outcome of a risk assessment identifying all potential factors for scrapie occurrence and their historic perspective, in particular the: a) importation or introduction of sheep and goats or their semen, in vivo derived goat embryos or in vitro processed sheep and goat oocytes or embryos potentially infected with scrapie; b) extent of knowledge of the population structure and husbandry practices of sheep and goats; c) feeding practices, including consumption of protein meal or greaves derived from ruminants; d) importation of milk and milk products of sheep or goats origin intended for use in feeding of sheep and goats;
For the inactivation of ASFV in swill, one of the following procedures should be used: 1) the swill is maintained at a temperature of at least 90°C for at least 60 minutes, with continuous stirring; or 2) the swill is maintained at a temperature of at least 121°C for at least 10 minutes at an absolute pressure of 3 bar; or 3) the swill is subjected to an equivalent treatment that has been demonstrated to inactivate ASFV.
For the inactivation of ASFV in meat, one of the following procedures should be used:
For the inactivation of ASFV in casings of pigs, the following procedures should be used: treating for at least 30 days either with dry salt (NaCl) or with saturated brine ( aw < 0.80), or with phosphate supplemented dry salt containing 86.5% NaCl, 10.7% Na2HPO4 and 2.8% Na3PO4 (weight/weight/weight) at a temperature of 12°C or above.
For the inactivation of ASFV in skins and trophies, one of the following procedures should be used: 1) boiling in water for an appropriate time so as to ensure that any matter other than bone, tusks or teeth is removed; or 2) soaking, with agitation, in a 4% (w/v) solution of washing soda (sodium carbonate-Na2CO3) maintained at pH 11.5 or above for at least 48 hours; or 3) soaking, with agitation, in a formic acid solution (100 kg salt [NaCl] and 12 kg formic acid per 1,000 litres water) maintained below pH 3.0 for at least 48 hours; wetting and dressing agents may be added; or 4) in the case of raw hides, treating for at least 28 days with salt (NaCl) containing 2% washing soda (sodium carbonate-Na2CO3); or 5) treatment with 1% formalin for a minimum of six days.
For the inactivation of ASFV in bristles for industrial use, one of the following procedures should be used: 1) boiling for at least 30 minutes; 2) immersion for at least 24 hours in a 1% solution of formaldehyde.
For the inactivation of ASFV in litter and manure of pigs, one of the following procedures should be used: 1) moist heat treatment for at least one hour at a minimum temperature of 55°C; 2) moist heat treatment for at least 30 minutes at a minimum temperature of 70°C.
Consideration should be given to the specific characteristics of ASF epidemiology which include: – the role of swill feeding; – the impact of different systems of production of domestic and captive wild pigs; – the role of wild and feral pigs and African wild suids on the maintenance and spread of the disease;
A country or zone is considered as infected with CSFV when the requirements for acceptance as a free country or zone are not fulfilled.
For the inactivation of CSFV in swill, one of the following procedures should be used: 1) the swill is maintained at a temperature of at least 90°C for at least 60 minutes, with continuous stirring; or 2) the swill is maintained under saturated steam conditions at a temperature of at least 121°C for at least 10 minutes at an absolute pressure of 2 bar; or
Procedures for the inactivation of CSFV in meat For the inactivation of CSFV in meat, one of the following procedures should be used:
Procedures for the inactivation of CSFV in casings of pigs For the inactivation of CSFV in casings of pigs, the following procedure should be used: treatment for at least 30 days with: phosphate supplemented salt, containing 86.5% NaCl, 10.7% Na 2HPO4 and 2.8% Na 3PO4 (weight/weight/weight), either dry, or as or saturated brine (a w< 0.80), and at a temperature of 20°C or above.
Procedures for the inactivation of CSFV in bristles For the inactivation of CSFV in bristles for industrial use, they should be boiled for at least 30 minutes.
Procedures for the inactivation of CSFV in litter and manure from pigs For the inactivation of CSFV in litter and manure from pigs, one of the following procedures should be used:
For the inactivation of CSFV in skins and trophies, one of the following procedures should be used: 1) boiling in water for an appropriate time, to ensure that any matter other than bone, tusks or teeth is removed; 2) gamma irradiation at a dose of at least 20 kiloGray at room temperature (20°C or higher); 3) soaking, with agitation, in a 4% (w/v) solution of washing soda (sodium carbonate [Na2CO3]) maintained at pH11.5 or above for at least 48 hours; 4) soaking, with agitation, in a formic acid solution (100 kg salt [NaCl] and 12 kg formic acid per 1,000 litres water) maintained below pH 3.0 for at least 48 hours,wetting and dressing agents may be added to the solution; 5) in the case of raw hides, salting for at least 28 days with sea salt containing 2% washing soda (sodium carbonate [Na2CO3]).
While the same principles apply, surveillance in wild and feral pigs presents additional challenges including: a) determination of the distribution, size and movement patterns associated with the wild and feral pig population; b) relevance and practicality of assessing the possible presence of infection with CSFV within the population;
Where a stamping-out policy or depopulation by means of slaughter are not practised, Article 15.3.3. applies.
Based on practical experiences it can be assumed that from 1 mg of hydrocyanic acid up to 0.4 mg ethyl carbamate potentially can be formed in a non - equimolar relationship.
Therefore, use of a stainless steel condenser at the end of the distillation device rather than a copper condenser will limit presence of copper in the distillate and reduce the rate of ethyl carbamate formation.
It does not apply to salt from origins other than those mentioned in Section 2, notably the salt which is a by-product of chemical industries.
In accordance with the provision for the relevant NaCl content (%), a lot or a consignment shall be considered acceptable if the following condition is verified: x minimum level specified.
According to ISO 2479-1972 "Determination of matter insoluble in water or in acid and preparation of principal solutions for other determinations".
According to method EuSalt/AS 012-2005 "Determination of total mercury content - cold vapour atomic absorption spectrometric method" or EuSalt/AS 015-2007 "Determination of Elements Emission Spectrometric Method (ICP-OES).
According to ISO 2483-1973 "Determination of the loss of mass at 110 °C".
According to EuSalt/AS 015-2007 "Determination of Elements Emission Spectrometric Method” (ICP-OES).
This method is applicable to the sampling of any type of salt intended for use as food, either prepacked or in bulk.
The terms used in this sampling method refer to those in the " General Guidelines on Sampling" (CAC/GL 50 -2004) unless stated otherwise.
The choice of the method to be used depends on the nature of the lot (for example: if the packages are marked with successive numbers, systematic sampling may be suitable).
Note: Stratified sampling of a population which can be divided into different subpopulations (called strata) is carried out in such a way that specified proportions of the sample are drawn from the different strata.
Special dietary foods with low sodium content are foods whose special dietary value results from the reduction, restriction, or removal of sodium.
Low sodium and Very low sodium foods are foods conforming to the respective provisions regarding maximum sodium content prescribed in sub-sections 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 of this standard.
A special dietary food with low sodium content is a food which has been processed without the addition of sodium salts, and the sodium content of which is not more than one half of that of the comparable normal product as consumed, and the sodium content of which is not more than 120 mg/100 g of the final product as normally consumed.
A special dietary food with very low sodium content is a food which has been processed without the addition of sodium salts, and the sodium content of which is not more than one half of that of the comparable normal product as consumed, and the sodium content of which is not more than 40 mg/100 g of the final product as normally consumed.
(b) Diluents: safe and suitable nutritive foods as normally consumed (e.g. sugars, cereal flour).
The Principles are applicable, as appropriate, to both mandatory and voluntary addition of essential nutrients.
It excludes dried seeds and powder for industrial processing.
Inshell nutmeg seeds may rattle due to the seed’s shrinkage within the shell in the drying process.
When dried nutmeg is traded as classified, the chemical and physical characteristics in Annex I apply as the minimum requirements.
f. Are the vTPA standards written in a way that they can be assessed for conformity?
