The use of food additives is not permitted for dairy permeate powders covered by this standard.
However, compositional modifications beyond the minima or maxima specified above for lactose, nitrogen, milk fat, ash and moisture are not considered to be in compliance with the Section 4.3.3 of the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999).
It does not apply to quinoa used as seeds for propagation, products derived from quinoa (e.g., flour, flakes).
The use of food additives is not permitted.
Sucrose, unless needed, and the addition of fructose as an ingredient, should be avoided in infant formula because of potential life-threatening symptoms in young infants with unrecognized hereditary fructose intolerance.
The product and its component shall not have been treated by ionizing irradiation.
the amount of the food additive in the raw materials or other ingredients (including food additives) does not exceed the maximum level specified;
The label shall have no pictures of infants and women nor any other picture or text which idealizes the use of infant formula.
The terms "humanized", "maternalized" or other similar terms shall not be used.
The additional information below does not affect the provisions in the preceding sections which are those that are essential to the product identity, the use of the name of the food and the safety of the food.
The defects must not, in any case, affect the flesh of the fruit.
Contributions must not be attached to any conditions in order to ensure impartiality and avoid any conflict of interest, so that the two bodies can operate effectively without fear or favour.
Longans for industrial processing are excluded.
– The use of additives belonging to the class is not technologically justified.
Fat in dry matter content (m/m): Corresponding minimum dry matter content (m/m): Equal to or above 45% but less than 50%: 51% Equal to or above 50% but less than 60%: 53% Equal to or above 60%: 60% Compositional modifications beyond the minima and maxima specified above for milk fat and dry matter are not considered to be in compliance with Section 4.3.3 of the General Standard for the Use of Dairy Terms (CXS 206-1999).
It excludes products for industrial processing.
No food additives are permitted in the products covered by this standard.
Abnormal placentation may lead to a build-up of wastes in the fetus and associated membranes,
NB: FIRST ADOPTED IN 2018.
3) A country may prohibit the importation of the above-mentioned products into its territory if it considers that certain diseases exist in the exporting country, or in the transit countries which precede it in the itinerary, which are capable of being introduced by these products into its territory.
When the products are not returned, the Veterinary Authority of the exporting country shall be informed immediately, thereby providing an opportunity for confirming the findings.
a) an establishment approved by the Veterinary Authority for the slaughter of the animal or animals and the destruction or possibly sterilisation of their carcasses; or b) a quarantine station or, in the absence of a quarantine station, to a place assigned in advance which is well isolated and near the border post;
On the arrival at a border post of a vehicle transporting an animal or animals suspected of being affected with any listed disease, the vehicle shall be considered as being contaminated, and the Veterinary Authority may apply the measures provided in Article 5.7.5.
The vehicle may then be allowed to enter.
l) Containers should be cleaned and disinfected between each use, or disposed of in a safe manner.
Furthermore, antimicrobial agents should not be used to control subclinical infection with Salmonella in bovines because the effectiveness of the treatment is limited, they may increase the risk of Salmonella colonisation, and their use can contribute to the development of antimicrobial resistance.
Dirty hides increase the risk of microbial contamination of carcasses during the slaughter process.
d) Painful procedures (including whipping, tail twisting, use of nose twitches, pressure on eyes, ears or external genitalia), or the use of goads or other aids which cause pain and suffering (including large sticks, sticks with sharp ends, lengths of metal piping, fencing wire or heavy leather belts), should not be used to move animals.
Breaking the neck while the animal is still conscious during bleeding is also an unacceptable practice.
Chicken and turkeys should not be stunned at frequencies higher than 600 Hz [under study].
For that reason, cervical dislocation and decapitation cannot be considered as stunning methods.
In birds, electro-immobilisation for neck-cutting or preventing wing flapping during bleeding, or the method of brain piercing through the skull without prior stunning should not be used under any circumstances.
Surgical caponisation should not be performed without adequate pain and infection control methods and should only be performed by veterinarians or trained and skilled personnel under veterinary supervision.
Captive wild pigs are not considered.
Manual restraint of the reptile should not be used due to safety concerns for humans in the line of fire.
No additives are permitted.
None permitted.
No food additives are permitted in these products.
(i) shall be free from microorganisms or substances originating from microorganisms in amounts which may present a hazard to health in accordance with standards established by the CAC; and (ii) shall not contain any other substance in amounts which may present a hazard to health in accordance with standards established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
Any food handler who has been identified as or is known to be a carrier of foodborne disease organism(s), shall not be involved in any food handling activity until certified fit by a medical practitioner.
Hand sanitizers should not replace hand washing and should be used only after hands have been washed;
A food warmer should be used to maintain continuous holding temperatures and should not be used for re-heating purposes.
Partial or full replacement of milk fat or milk protein with other sources of non-dairy fat or non-dairy protein shall not be allowed.
Nor should drinking water
No food additives are permitted in berry fruits.
e) Glass equipment and glass sample bottles should be avoided in situations where breakage might lead to contamination.
* Banned as the second or third previous cargoes in organically coated tanks and as the immediate previous cargo in stainless steel and inorganically coated tanks.
No additives are allowed in the products covered by this Standard.
The product shall be labelled in accordance with the Codex General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1-1985), with the additional provisions that the label shall not be placed directly on the date paste, and that the following information shall appear on the container:
Food additives are not permitted in live bivalve molluscs.
Chayotes for industrial processing are excluded.
The defects must not, in any case, affect the pulp of the fruit.
The difference in weight between individual fruits under size code D may not exceed 150 g.
Containers used for toxic materials should not subsequently be used for holding foods or food ingredients.
Steam used in direct contact with food or food contact surfaces should not contain any substances which may be hazardous to health or may contaminate the food.
Personal effects and clothing should not be deposited in food handling areas.
Any behaviour which could result in contamination of food, such as eating, use of tobacco, chewing (e.g. gum, sticks, betel nuts, etc.) or unhygienic practices, such as spitting, should be prohibited in food handling areas.
The indiscriminate use of chlorine cannot compensate for unhygienic conditions in a processing plant.
The following do not constitute nutrition claims: (a) the mention of substances in the list of ingredients; (b) the mention of nutrients as a mandatory part of nutrition labelling; (c) quantitative or qualitative declaration of certain nutrients or ingredients on the label if required by national legislation.
1.2 It does not apply: – to any product prepared from common wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) or club wheat (Triticum compactum Host.) or mixtures thereof, or to mixtures of these wheats in combination with durum wheat (Triticum durum Desf.) – to durum wheat flour or semolina for non-food industrial or animal feed use.
No food additives are permitted for use in unrefined shea butter.
These must not be confused with the procedure for conformity assessment illustrated in Figure 1 in the Guidelines on Measurement Uncertainty (CXG 54-2004).2
However, lots should not be split into sublots based on results obtained from earlier testing.
Nopals for industrial processing are excluded.
The pack shall not contain a mixture of species.
Spitting, eating and the use of tobacco or chewing gum should be prohibited in food handling areas.
Dry goods and 100% oil products are not included, because they do not experience tin migration.
Unless the sampling plan specifies otherwise, a lot should not be subjected to repeat testing.
The moving window approach should not be confused with trend analysis, which is described in the following section.
– Crotolaria (Crotalaria spp.), Corn cockle (Agrostemma githago L.), Castor bean (Ricinus communis L.), Jimson weed (Datura spp.),and other seeds that are commonly recognized as harmful to health.
No additives are permitted in this product.
This Annex does not: • address risk management measures; national authorities will determine when a recombinant-DNA plant material is present at a level low enough for this Annex to be appropriate; • preclude national authorities from conducting a safety assessment according to the Codex Plant Guideline; countries can decide when and how to use the Annex within the context of their regulatory systems; or • eliminate the responsibility of industries, exporters and, when applicable, national competent authorities to continue to meet countries’ relevant import requirements, including in relation to unauthorized recombinant-DNA plant material.
No additives are permitted in virgin olive oils covered by this standard.
In no case shall the designation ‘olive oil’ be used to refer to olive-pomace oils.
3.3 Chemical or biochemical treatments shall not be used to influence honey crystallisation.
Do not purchase food products that are unlabelled and/or without a clearly stated shelf life, where appropriate.
The use of printed plastic/paper is forbidden because the print can wear off, especially if in direct contact with the food.
It does not include ready-to-eat fried as well as artificially flavoured fish, crustacean and molluscan shellfish crackers.
The sample used for sensory evaluation should not be same as that used for other examination.
Butter and dairy spreads are not covered by this Standard.
This Standard does not apply to Avena nuda (hulless oats).
They should not impart any toxic substance or undesirable odour or flavour to the product.
Carambolas for industrial processing are excluded.
However, the use of additional means of presentation should not be excluded.
FOPNL should not be used in any way that could promote the consumption of alcohol.
Street foods should not be transported together with raw food and ingredients, animals, toxic substances and any other materials which may contaminate the food.
Expired food shall not be sold or used for the preparation of food.
Steam used in direct contact with food or food contact surfaces should not constitute a threat to the safety and suitability of food.
People engaged in food handling activities should refrain from behaviour which could result in contamination of food, for example: • smoking; • spitting; • chewing or eating; • sneezing or coughing over unprotected food. Personal effects such as jewellery, watches, pins or other items should not be worn or brought into food handling areas if they pose a threat to the safety and suitability of food. No vendor is allowed to use the stall as a sleeping or dwelling place, or for any other personal activity.
Litchis for industrial processing are excluded.
The branch must not exceed 15 cm in length.
The standard does not include products that contain seeds and skins such as “pizza toppings” and other “homestyle” products as well as products commonly known as tomato sauce, chilli sauce, and ketchup, or similar products which are highly seasoned products of varying concentrations containing characterizing ingredients such as pepper, onions, vinegar, etc., in quantities that materially alter the flavour, aroma and taste of the tomato component.
These acceptance criteria do not apply to non-retail containers.
All the types, preparations and styles of table olives may be classified in this category, except for chopped or broken olives.
Baby corn for industrial processing is excluded.
No food additives are permitted in onions and shallots.
– Rancid kernels are defined as those which have undergone oxidation of lipids (should not exceed 5 meq active oxygen/kg) or the production of free fatty acids (should not exceed 1.0%) resulting in the production of disagreeable flavours.
A load of produce can be ruined by: - smell from previous deliveries or incompatible loads; - toxic chemical residues; - insects nesting in the equipment; - decaying remains of agricultural produce; - debris blocking drain openings or air circulation channels along the floor.
- damage to walls, ceilings, or floors which can let in the outside heat, cold, moisture, dirt, and insects; - operation and condition of doors, ventilation openings, and seals; - provisions for load locking and bracing.
The design of the bottom of the pallet should not block air circulation.
The refrigeration units also are not capable of raising or controlling the relative humidity.
Film wrap should not be used on shipping containers of produce that need ventilation.
This Standard does not apply to green and violet/green asparagus of less than 3 mm diameter and white and violet asparagus of less than 8 mm diameter, packed in uniform bundles or unit packages.
No specific requirements beyond those contained in the General Principles of Food Hygiene (CXC 1-1969) are needed.
During that separation period, milk from those animals shall not be used for the production of milk for the manufacture of raw milk products; • the owner shall keep a record of relevant information, e.g., results of tests carried out to establish the status of an animal just being introduced, and the identity for each animal either coming or leaving the herd.
– No pesticides should be applied during milking.
Avoid insect, bird, and rodent infestation during transportation by the use of insect and rodent proof containers or insect and rodent repellent chemical treatments provided they are approved for the intended use of the peanuts.
Peanuts that have been spilled are vulnerable to contamination and should not be used for edible products.
Pitahayas for industrial processing are excluded.
These requirements do not apply to canned pineapple in the styles of: whole, broken slices, pieces, chips or crushed.
The product shall not leak or swell after sterilization.
Kiwifruit for industrial processing are excluded.
The evaluation area must not be used for chemical and microbiological analyses however, some types of analyses could be done in the preparation area.
• Fish should not be transported with other products that might contaminate them.
• Water should not be contaminated with either human sewage or industrial pollution; holding tanks and transportation systems should be designed and operated in a hygienic way to prevent contamination of water and equipment. • Water in holding and conditioning tanks should be well aerated before fish are transferred into it. Potential hazards: microbiological contamination, biotoxins, chemical contamination (e.g. oil, cleaning and disinfecting agents) Potential defects: dead fish, physical damage, off-flavours, physical/biochemical change owing to stress of live fish Technical guidance:
• Live bivalve molluscs must not be re-immersed in or sprayed with water after they have been packaged and left the distribution centre or establishment except in the case of retail sale at the distribution centre.
The bivalve molluscs should not be transported with other products that might contaminate them.
– Rough handling of live scallops should be avoided to minimize stress and injury that could lead to the death of scallops prior to processing.
• Wash water should not be recycled unless there are appropriate controls on its microbial quality.
Refined product should not be allowed to accumulate on sieve screens for long periods of time.
Vehicles that have previously hauled potentially unsafe or hazardous material should not be used for hauling food products or ingredients.
• Defective ingredients and packaging material should not be used.
• Caviar cans/jars should not be described or presented on any label in a manner that is false or misleading to consumers. • Labels should be monitored for accuracy by trained personnel.
• Containers of caviar should be periodically checked for loss of vacuum or can corrosion; any affected containers should be rejected. Refer to Sections 20.17 and 20.20.
Potential hazards: chemical contamination (e.g. use of texturizing agents), microbiological contamination, drug residue Potential defects: damage to the egg texture, off flavour and off odour, quality deterioration Technical guidance: Shell texturizing agents are not permitted in accordance with Section 4 of the Standard for Sturgeon Caviar (CXS 291-2010) Eggs should be treated with shell improving methods in such a manner as to avoid chemical or microbiological contamination or growth, damage to the eggs, modification of their flavour or odour, or deterioration in their quality.
Frozen seafood products should not be subjected to ambient room temperatures for a prolonged period of time.
Aseptic filling is not covered by this Code.
Freezing should not be used as a control measure in regions where Trichinella species and genotypes that are known to be cold tolerant such as Trichinella T6, T. britovi, and T. nativa, are endemic.
This standard does not apply to grits or coarse grain obtained from pearl millet.
29. Harvested fruit should not be left in the orchard overnight but moved to a hard standing area, preferably under cover.
It does not apply to speciality products where fish content constitutes less than 50 percent m/m of the net contents of the can.
It would be inappropriate to substitute alternative processes, such as a different DNA or protein isolation process, into a validated method without conducting additional studies to show that the substitution does not affect the performance of the method.
Pre-packaged food shall not be described or presented on any label or in any labelling by words, pictorial or other devices which refer to or are suggestive either directly or indirectly, of any other product with which such food might be confused, or in such a manner as to lead the purchaser or consumer to suppose that the food is connected with such other product.
i) Food should not be placed in international trade for the purpose of disposing of unsafe or unsuitable food as described in 3.2 of the Code of Ethics for International Trade in Food including Concessional and Food Aid Transactions (CAC/RCP 20-1979).
Okra for industrial processing is excluded.
Implementation of measures that unnecessarily restrict supply of rice to the market should be avoided.
It excludes dried thyme intended for industrial processing.
Pomegranates for industrial processing are excluded.
The defects must not, in any case, affect the arils of the fruit.
The product and its components shall not have been treated by ionizing radiation.
These requirements include a prohibition on the use of nutrition and health claims for foods for infants and young children except where specifically provided for in relevant Codex standards or national legislation.
The labelling of the product as defined in Section 2.1 shall not refer to infant formula, follow-up formula for older infants, or formula for special medical purposes intended for infants, including numbers, text, statements, or images of these products.
This Standard does not apply to such cheeses.
– The use of additives belonging to the class is not technologically justified .
Antibiotics should not be used in feed for growth promoting purposes in the absence of a public health safety assessment.
Feed and feed ingredients should not be presented or marketed in a manner liable to mislead the user.
For example, seed treated for planting should not be fed.
For domestic and captive wild pigs Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the animals: 1) showed no clinical sign of AD on the day of shipment; 2) come from an establishment located in an AD free country or zone; 3) have not been vaccinated against AD.
Recommendations for importation from AD free countries or zones For offal (head, and thoracic and abdominal viscera) of pigs or products containing pig offal Veterinary Authorities should require the presentation of an international veterinary certificate attesting that the entire consignment of offal or products containing pig offal comes from animals which come from establishments located in an AD free country or zone.
2) A country or a zone may be considered free from bluetongue when infection with BTV is notifiable in the entire country and either: a) a surveillance programme in accordance with Articles 8.3.14. to 8.3.17. has demonstrated no evidence of infection with BTV in the country or zone during the past two years; or b) an ongoing surveillance programme has found no Culicoides for at least two years in the country or zone.
2) the donor animals were not vaccinated against infection with Brucella and either: a) were kept in a semen collection centre complying with Chapter 4.6. and the semen was collected and processed in accordance with Chapter 4.7.; OR b) were kept in a herd or flock free from infection with Brucella and tested every six months for infection with Brucella with negative results, and the semen was collected, processed and stored in accordance with Articles 4.6.3. to 4.6.5.
When authorising import or transit of any commodities of livestock, Veterinary Authorities should not require any related conditions regardless of the status of the animal population of the exporting country or zone.
Otherwise, the status is suspended.
Veterinary Authorities of countries free from heartwater may prohibit importation or transit through their territory, from countries considered infected with heartwater, of domestic and wild ruminants.
3) An imported human case of rabies does not affect the free status.
Veterinary Authorities of RHD free countries may prohibit importation or transit through their territory, from countries considered infected with RHD, of live rabbits, semen, meat and non-treated pelts.
It does not refer to other aspects of the composition of such foods including the use of food additives, except salt substitutes.
It does not apply to other traditionally-prepared types of harissa.
No food additives may be used in harissa.
Essential nutrients should not be added to alcoholic beverages.
The defects allowed must not affect the general requirements of the product as regards to its quality, keeping quality and presentation in the package.
The vTPA standard, its audit and inspection does not replace regulatory requirements or controls carried out by the competent authority and could be complementary to the regulatory controls.
The roles and responsibilities of all participants along the food chain should not change as a result of any decision by a competent authority to take account of reliable vTPA programme information/data in their NFCS relating to protecting the health of consumers and ensuring fair practices in the food trade.
Fungi shall not come into contact with printed inscriptions on the package.
Producers should not withhold medication where it will result in unnecessary suffering of the livestock, even if the use of such medication will cause the animal to lose its organic status.
a) where specific disease or health problems occur, or may occur, and no alternative permitted treatment or management practice exists, or, in cases required by law, vaccination of livestock, the use of parasiticides, or therapeutic use of veterinary drugs are permitted; b) phytotherapeutic (excluding antibiotics), homeopathic or ayurvedic products and trace elements shall be used in preference to chemical allopathic veterinary drugs or antibiotics, provided that their therapeutic effect is effective for the species of animal and the condition for which the treatment is intended; c) if the use of the above products is unlikely to be effective in combating illness or injury, chemical allopathic veterinary drugs or antibiotics may be used under the responsibility of a veterinarian; withholding periods should be the double of that required by legislation with, in any case, a minimum of 48 hours; d) the use of chemical allopathic veterinary drugs or antibiotics for preventative treatments is prohibited.
The keeping of rabbits in cages is not permitted.
Surface-treated fresh fruit04.1.2 Processed fruit04.2.1.2 Surface-treated fresh vegetables, (including mushrooms and fungi, roots and tubers, pulses and legumes, and Not permitted.
Not permitted.
Any preparations of micro-organisms and enzymes normally used as processing aids in food processing, with the exception of genetically engineered/modified organisms and enzymes derived from genetically engineered/modified organisms.
The products shall not contain more than 10 mg/100g of histamine based on the average of the sample unit tested.
“Packaged waters”, other than natural mineral waters, are waters for human consumption and may contain minerals, naturally occurring or intentionally added; may contain carbon dioxide, naturally occurring or intentionally added; but shall not contain sugars, sweeteners, flavourings or other foodstuffs.
Waters defined by origin must not, prior to packaging, be modified or subjected to treatments other than those described in subsections below with the proviso that these modifications or treatments and the processes used to achieve them do not change the essential physicochemical characteristics nor compromise the chemical, radiological and microbiological safety of these waters when packaged:
No additives except for the addition of carbon dioxide to produce carbonated products.
Claims of other beneficial effects related to the health of the consumer shall not be made unless true and not misleading.
These guidelines do not cover microbiological test results.
These are not pathogenic and do not produce toxins; b) salt; and c) other ingredients as appropriate
Grapefruits for industrial processing are excluded.
Grapefruit of a diameter below 70 mm are excluded.
Traditional delicacy eggs (e.g. Balut, 1000 year old eggs) are not within the scope of this code.
Primary production should not be carried out in areas where the presence of potentially harmful substances i...
Any egg packaging, storage or associated equipment should not transfer substances to eggs that will present a health risk to the consumer.
Pineapples for industrial processing are excluded.
No additives are permitted for use in this product.
In no case can the diameter be less than 40 mm.
(f) Animals forbidden to be killed in Islam i.e., ants, bees and woodpecker birds.
Food additives shall not be described or presented on any label or in any labelling by words, pictorial or other devices which refer to or are suggestive, either directly or indirectly, of any other product with which such food additives might be confused, or in such a manner as to lead the purchaser or consumer to suppose that the food additive is connected with or derived from such other product; provided that the term “x flavour” may be used to describe a flavour which is not derived from, but reproduces the flavour of “x”.
The term does not include contaminants, or substances added to food for maintaining or improving nutritional qualities, or sodium chloride; by volume or weight;
The term does not include bills, invoices and similar material which may accompany the food additives;
Ingredients for which class names are set out in section 4.2.3.1 in the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1-1985) may be declared by the applicable class name, except for those ingredients that are identified in section 4.2.1.4 of the General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1 -1985) as foods or ingredients that are known to cause hypersensitivity.
Nothing in this standard shall preclude the adoption of additional or different provisions in a Codex standard, in respect of labelling, where the circumstances of a particular food additive would justify their incorporation in that standard.
The defects allowed must not affect the general appearance of the product as regards to its quality, keeping quality and presentation in the package.
The name of the product for labelling purposes shall be: “Halwa Tehenia”, “Halwa Shamia” or “Halva” Optional ingredients, if used, shall be mentioned next to the name of the product. The label shall not be applied directly on the product.
The statistical tables in Appendix A are not relevant to such programmes and the number of samples should reflect the importing country’s confidence in the performance of the exporting country.
The standard does not include dried tomatoes and preserved tomatoes containing other vegetables such as pepper and onions in quantities that materially alter the flavour, aroma and taste of the tomato component.
The pH must not exceed 4.5.
Employees who have been cleaning drains should not contact or clean food contact surfaces without changing clothes, and washing and disinfecting hands.
Raw materials that have been dried should not be allowed to get wet again during storage or at any other time.
Dried aromatic herbs are not included under the scope of this COP.
If washing is not needed it should not be carried out as washing might spread the contamination of certain hot spots to the rest of the harvest.
If a destructive measurement is carried out, the tolerance of 2.8c is not applicable.
In no case, should products be stored beyond their specified shelf-life.
No food additives are permitted.
This code does not apply to fruits commonly known as "dehydrated fruits" with a moisture content not exceeding 5%.
– shall be free from microorganisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health; – shall be free from parasites which may represent a hazard to health; and – shall not contain any substance originating from micro-organisms in amounts which may represent a hazard to health.
National laws should only permit the use of names other than those given in 6.1.1 and 6.1.2. in countries where such names are traditional, fully understood by the consumer and not misleading or de ceptive with respect to other categories of product provided that any product with less than 25% of total cocoa powder or fat-reduced cocoa powder content shall not bear the term "chocolate" in its designation.
Any dark particle or flower bud Shall not affect the overall appearance of the product
It does not apply to natural mineral waters sold or used for other purposes.
The use of any statement or of any pictorial device which may create confusion in the mind of the public or in any way mislead the public about the nature, origin, composition and properties of natural mineral waters put on sale is prohibited.
Grapes for industrial processing are excluded.
Cape gooseberries for industrial processing are excluded.
Food information that relates to an individual physical product (e.g. lot code, date marking) should not be provided only using technology if doing so would compromise the ability to relate th e information to that individual product.
Mangosteens for industrial processing are excluded.
Such procedures and mechanisms should not limit the rights or obligations of the parties under the World Trade Organization (WTO) Agreements.
Sampling of areas far from the processing line or even external areas is of limited use.
No food additives are permitted in the products defined in section 2.1.1 and 2.1.2.
It does not apply to the product when indicated as intended for further processing or for other industrial purposes.
It does not apply to pre-packaged meals controlled in energy and presented in the form of conventional foods.
No protein with a quality of less than 80 percent of that of the reference protein shall be used in a formula food for use in a weight-control diet.
Storage and transportation of packaged natural mineral waters at excessive high or low temperatures should be avoided as it may result in quality reduction (e.g. risk of compound migration from primary packaging materials).
An aw exceeding 0.70 at 25C (77F) is unsafe.
Food should not be grown or harvested where the presence of potentially harmful substances would lead to an unacceptable level of such substances in the food.
Vine and groundnuts waste should not be permitted to accumulate in such a manner as to promote mould growth or to attract rodents or insects.
Food should not be grown or produced in areas where the water used for irrigation might constitute a health hazard to the consumer through the food.
Containers previously used for toxic materials should not subsequently be used for holding foods or food ingredients.
Equipment and utensils used for inedible materials or waste should be so identified and should not be used for edible products.
Personnel should not wear any insecure jewellery when engaged in food handling.
Any behaviour which could result in contamination of food, such as eating, use of tobacco, chewing (e.g. gum, sticks, betel nuts, etc.) or unhygienic practices such as spitting, should be prohibited in food handling areas.
For example, such items as fertilizer, gasoline or lubricating oils should not be stored with groundnuts, and some fruits or vegetables contribute objectionable odours or flavours.
Groundnuts that have been spilled are vulnerable to contamination and should not be used for edible products.
This standard does not apply to pasta.
They should not impart any toxic substances or undesirable odour or flavour to the product.
Tannias for industrial processing are excluded.
Aspergillus flavus/A. parasiticus cannot grow or produce aflatoxins at water activities less than 0.7.
Pods left from the last crop season should never be mixed with pods from the present crop season, as they represent a potential source of contamination with Aspergillus.
Otherwise no intermediate storage is recommended, especially for nuts expected to be marketed in-shell.
No food additives are permitted in foods conforming to this standard.
This tolerance may not be extended to include produce with a size below 50 mm or 70 g if the refractometric index is below 10.5°Brix
They do not include products covered by the Standard for Infant Formula and Formulas for Special Medical Purposes Intended for Infants (CXS 72-1981)2 or by the Standard for Processed Cereal-Based Foods for Infants and Young Children (CXS 74-1981).
The products covered by this standard are not breast-milk substitutes and shall not be presented as such.
The present guidelines are not intended to provide support to CCFA on the work on the GSFA, as JECFA is the international expert scientific advisory body to provide such advice to the Committee based on the Principles and Methods for The Risk Assessment of Chemicals in Food - Environmental Health Criteria (EHC) 240.
The decision criteria should not apply a standard or level of performance in excess of that which the importing country’s NFCS or relevant part achieves as it relates to the protection of the health of consumers and ensuring fair practices in the food trade.
The standard does not apply to the final kava beverage as such, or kava products used for medicinal purposes, or as ingredients in foods or other tradable product, or for any other purposes.
Upper stems, leaves, peelings (bark), and extraction residues are excluded.
No additives are permitted in the products covered by this standard.
Cassava for industrial processing is excluded.
In addition, AMR from non-food animals, non-food plants/crops, or non-food routes are also outside the scope of this document.
Antimicrobial agents that are not considered medically important should not be used for growth promotion unless potential risks to human health have been evaluated through procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Risk Analysis of Foodborne Antimicrobial Resistance (CXG 77-2011).
The term does not include contaminants or substances added to food for maintaining or improving nutritional qualities.
Carry-over of a food additive from a raw material or ingredient is unacceptable for foods belonging to the following food categories, unless a food additive provision in the specified category is listed in Tables 1 and 2 of this standard.
