This description does not include edible offal.
Antimicrobials used as biocides including disinfectants, are excluded from the scope of these guidelines.
This guideline does not address the uncertainty component associated with sampling and focuses on uncertainty contributions which arise in connection with obtaining a test sample from the laboratory sample, taking a test portion from a test sample (i.e. the errors due to the heterogeneity between test portions) and the analysis of a test portion in the laboratory.
No mixing of caviar from different sturgeon species or lots shall be permitted.
Avoid cross-contamination from other potentially contaminated consignments nearby.
The ML does not apply to cranberry, currant, and elderberry.
The ML does not apply to naturally fermented soy sauce.
It should not be mandatory for an exporting country to replicate (i.e. establish the same) the traceability/product tracing tool as used by the importing country, when applicable.
Coulommiers intended for further processing need not exhibit the same extent of ripening when justified through technical and/or trade needs.
However, leakage should not be ruled out.
Any behaviour which could result in contamination of food, such as eating, use of tobacco, chewing (e.g., gum, sticks, betel nuts, etc.) or unhygienic practices such as spitting, should be prohibited in food handling areas.
Washing containers after sterilization should be avoided as it increases the risk of post-processing contamination and also it may be more difficult to remove food debris from the container external surface as it will adhere rather firmly after heating.
Bleeders are not part of the venting system.
Such unaffected product would not be subject to the coding requirement of Section 4.7.
It excludes dried oregano intended for industrial processing.
RUTF is not for general retail sale.
Ready-to-use supplementary foods (RUSF), micronutrient supplements, processed cereal-based foods, formulated complementary foods for older infants and young children, and canned baby foods are not covered by these guidelines.
Field beans or fava beans (Vicia faba L.) should not be used in the formulation of RUTF because of the danger of favism.
Partially hydrogenated fats and oils should not be used in RUTF.
Honey should not be used in RUTF due to the risk of infant botulism from Clostridium botulinum.
The product should not contain contaminants or other undesirable substances (e.g. biologically active substances, metal fragments) in amounts which may represent a risk to the health of children.
Nutrition and health claims shall not be permitted for RUTF.
Parthenocarpic fruit and avocados for industrial processing are excluded.
Food containers or containers which are used to handle food, should not be used to measure, dilute, dispense or store pesticides or other substances.
Except when necessary for hygienic or processing purposes, no substance which could contaminate food should be used or stored in food handling areas.
Any behaviour which could result in contamination of food, such as eating, use of tobacco, chewing (e.g. gum, sticks, betel nuts, etc.) or unhygienic practices such as spitting should be prohibited in food handling areas.
The use of materials which cannot be adequately cleaned and disinfected, such as wood, should be avoided unless its use would clearly not be a source of contamination.
Personnel should not wear any insecure jewelry when engaged in food handling.
Rapid temper ature changes during storage should be avoided as this may cause the condensation of moist air on the containers and thus lead to corrosion of metal containers.
There shall not be any form of adulteration in the product.
Food additives are not permitted in live abalone.
Food additives are not permitted in raw fresh chilled or frozen abalone.
Canned finfish of the families Scombridae, Scombresocidae,Clupeidae, Coryphaenidae and Pomatomidae shall not contain more than 10 mg/100 g of histamine based on the average of the sample units tested.
Neither the containers used for storage nor their caps or stoppers should allow migration of the analyte(s) into the storage compartment.
Unnecessary sample storage can be avoided by a careful planning for sampling and consequent.
However, addition of reducing sugars prior to baking represents an avoidable source of acrylamide formation.
Papayas for industrial processing are excluded.
Pummelos for industrial processing are excluded.
It does not apply to other products derived from sorghum grains.
3.2 No food (including re-exported food) should be in international trade which1: a) has in or upon it any hazard in an amount which renders it poisonous, harmful or otherwise injurious to health, taking into account the application of risk analysis principles; or b) consists in whole or in part of any filthy, putrid, rotten, decomposed or other substance or foreign matter which renders it unfit for human consumption; or c) is adulterated; or d) is labelled or presented in a manner that is false, misleading or deceptive; or e) is prepared, processed, packaged, stored, transported or marketed under unsanitary conditions ; or f) has an expiration date, where applicable, which does not leave sufficient time for distribution in the importing country.
They shall not impart any toxic substance or undesirable odour or flavour to the product.
This guide is not intended to be used to determine the disposition of a lot of canned food.
The following claims should be prohibited:
Personnel should not be permitted to bring food or drink into areas where product, ingredients or primary packaging is exposed, as these foods may contain allergens and result in allergen cross-contact.
Due to the mainly bacteriostatic effect of the system it is not possible to disguise poor quality milk, which originally contained a high bacterial population, by applying this method.
Processing must not be so severe as to appreciably impair the nutritive value.
(N x 6.25) shall not be less than 40% on a dry weight basis, excluding vitamins, minerals, amino acids and food additives.
The yield of ash on incineration shall not exceed 10% on a dry weight basis.
For products not covered by a specific product standard, crude fibre shall not exceed 10% on a dry weight basis.
No food additives are permitted in vegetable protein products.
Whey removal after fermentation is not permitted in the manufacture of fermented milks, except for Concentrated Fermented Milk (Section 2.2).
– Avoid using marc containing toxigenic fungi as a fertilizer in the vineyards.
When grapes are extensively contaminated by mould: – the grapes can not be used for making concentrated musts or wine; – the grapes can only be used for distillation.
– Avoid post-harvest heating treatments and aggressive and prolonged macerations. – In the case of contamination by OTA, it is preferable to treat the grape s and the musts with the lowest possible and most effective doses of oenological charcoal in order to avoid possible loss of aromatic and polyphenolic compounds when the treatment is carried out on wine.
Food contact materials used during harvesting, transport and production in the winery should not give rise to contaminant migration or cross -contamination which can endanger human health.
In particular, primary production should not be carried out in areas where the presence of contaminants would lead to an unacceptable level of such contaminants in food, e.g. using polluted areas, locating near facilities emitting toxic or offensive odours which could taint foodstuffs or near sources of contaminated water such as discharge of wastewater from industrial production or runoff from agricultural land with high faecal material or chemical residues, unless there is a measure to reduce or prevent the contamination of food.
Handwashing basins should not be used for washing food or utensils.
Personal effects such as jewellery, watches, pins, or other items such as false nails/eye lashes should not be worn or brought into food handling areas if they pose a threat to the safety and suitability of food.
Note: GHP-based control measures are not subject to validation.
Specific provisions from the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code and Animal Feed documents are not provided in these Guidelines.
32. Personnel involved in the transporta tion of day-old chicks to pare nt flocks should not enter any livestock buildings and should prevent cross contamination of day old chicks during loading and unloading.
It should not be used as a substitute for good hygienic and good manufacturing practices or good agricultural practices.
Partially hydrogenated fats (and oils) should not be used in Formulated Complementary Foods.
The products covered by these Guidelines are not breastmilk substitutes and shall not be presented as such.
Durians for industrial processing are excluded.
(iii) Creams in bulk should be mixed thoroughly with a plunger before sampling but foaming, whipping and churning must be avoided.
Individual eggs, fresh fruit or vegetables must not be cut or broken to produce units.
Antibiotic resistance genes used in food production that encode resistance to clinically used antibiotics should not be present in foods.
Marker genes encoding resistance to such antibiotics should not be used in recombinant-DNA animals.
The defects allowed must not affect the general appearance of the product as regard to its quality, keeping quality and presentation in the package.
The raw material should not be accepted by the plant if known to contain decomposed, toxic or extraneous substances which will not be removed to acceptable levels by normal plant procedures of sorting or preparation.
This standard does not apply to non -fermented noni fruit juice, other noni products from fruit, leaves, bark or flowers, or noni products for medicinal purposes.
No additives are permitted in the product as defined by the scope.
Cloakroom and toilets should not open directly into any food handling areas.
If acceptable, the products should be moved to a suitable area; if not, they should be removed from the case, not offered for sale, and destroyed if necessary.
Spices and dried culinary herbs in which Salmonella is detected should not be used unless they are subjected to an effective microbial reduction treatment.
Equipment should not be used for both treated and untreated products without adequate cleaning and disinfection before use with treated products.
Spices and dried culinary herbs that have been spilled are vulnerable to contamination and should not be used as food.
In any event, fuels like e.g. diesel oil, rubber, tyres, or waste oil must not be used even as a partial component, as they may lead to significantly increased PAH levels.
Lower water content of wood may lead to rapid burning of the wood and higher PAH levels; d) Avoid the use of fuels such as diesel fuel, waste products, especially rubber tyres, olive residues and waste oil which may already contain significant levels of PAH; e) The fuel influences the taste of the final food.
a) Temperature of the air should be optimal; b) Minimize the time that food is in contact with combustion gasses; c) Use of active carbon during refining of the oil; d) Avoid fire drying of oilseeds; e) Avoid direct contact of oilseeds or cereals with combustion products; f) Keep equipment clean and well maintained (especially driers).
Food ingredients produced using methods that do not involve acid hydrolysis of vegetable proteins are not covered by this Code of Practice.
This standard does not cover: (1) products which are clearly intended or labelled as intended for special dietary uses; (2) reduced sugar products or those with a very low sugar content; (3) products where the foodstuffs with sweetening properties have been replaced wholly or partially by food additive sweeteners.
Culantro coyote for industrial processing are excluded.
Fish products produced by use of added natural or artificial enzymatic preparations, acids and/or artificial enzymes are not covered by this standard.
Fish flesh shall not be obviously infested by parasites.
The product shall not contain any other substance in amounts which may present a hazard to health in accordance with standards established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission.
The final product shall be free from any foreign material that poses a threat to human health .
Where allowed in accordance with the General Principles for the Addition of Essential Nutrients for Food (CXG 9-1987), maximum and minimum levels for Vitamins A, D and other nutrients, where appropriate, should be laid down by national legislation in accordance with the needs of individual country including, where appropriate, the prohibition of the use of particular nutrients.
Mangoes for industrial processing are excluded.
Codex does not implement MRM options.
It is beyond the scope of this document to consider in detail the risk assessment tools, techniques, and mathematical/statistical principles that may be pertinent to the development and implementation of specific metrics for a specific food/hazard.
The use of partially hydrogenated fats for these products is prohibited.
The products covered by this standard are not breastmilk substitutes and shall not be presented as such.
Wheat gluten or wheat protein products should not be used for technological reasons e.g. coating or processing aids for foods which are gluten-free by nature1.
No food additives are permitted in vital and devitalized wheat gluten and in solubilized wheat proteins.
– Crotalaria (Crotalaria spp.), corn cockle (Agrostemma githago L.), castor bean (Ricinus communis L.), Jimson weed (Datura spp.), and other seeds that are commonly recognized as harmful to health.
Cumin (whole, cracked or ground) must not contain more than 10 percent moisture.
Cooling and freezing processes should not be considered suitable for the control of foodborne viruses as they do not reduce virus infectivity to levels considered safe.
Various types of packaging that are aimed at inhibiting bacterial or fungal growth are not effective against human viruses because human viruses do not grow in foods.
Non-authorized persons and , to the extent possible , children, should not be on the premises where fresh produce is grown, harvested, washed, packed or stored.
The addition of creatinine as such to products covered by this Standard shall not be permitted.
Guavas for industrial processing are excluded.
This standard does not cover finely chopped products called relish.
Non-potable water systems should be identified and should not connect with or allow reflux into potable water systems.
Personal effects (e.g. jewellery, watches, purses, backpacks, clothes) should not be worn or brought into fresh fruit and vegetable production areas if they pose a threat to the safety and suitability of the food.
Pipes should not leak and condensation should be minimized to avoid dripping on to product or packing equipment.
The use products that have visible signs of decay or damaged structure (e.g. mechanical damage, cracked rinds, wilted leaves) should be avoided due to the increased risk for microbial contamination.
If seed lots are analysed for the presence of microbial pathogens of concern, the seeds should not be used until the results are available.
• Seed samples for microbial analysis should not be subject to any microbiological decontamination treatment prior to testing.
Ginger for industrial processing is excluded.
The weight of the heaviest hand (rhizome) may not be more than twice the weight of the lightest hand (rhizome) in the same package.
This standard does not cover pickled cucumbers, kimchi, table olives, sauerkraut, chutneys and relishes.
The products shall not contain any other substance in amounts, which may present a hazard to health in accordance with standards established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission, and the final product shall be free from any foreign material that poses a threat to human health.
Feed of animal origin that exceeds nationally established guideline levels or maximum levels, if available, or contains elevated levels of dioxins or PCBs should not be fed to animals unless the fat has been removed.
The preservation of wood with waste oils should also be avoided.
A carrier who is excreting choleragenic V. cholerae should not handle seafood or ice for the storage of seafood, which may result in the contamination of the seafood with choleragenic V. cholerae.
Over-stacking and/or over-filling of containers should be avoided to allow cold air to circulate adequately.
